packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/deploy-to-production/java/index.md, before:

---
title: Java
---

Java applications typically build into a WAR or a JAR for production.

If you deploy your application as a WAR, it's possible you have a context path. If you do, make sure you add this to your Login redirect URI and your Logout redirect URI for your Okta app.

// todo: how to do this with the Okta CLI

JAR-based Java apps usually don't have a context, and if you start them locally, they'll be available at `http://localhost:8080`.

### Heroku

The easiest way to deploy your Java app to production with Okta is to use Heroku. We provide an [Okta Heroku Add-on](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/okta) that auto-provisions a Okta org for you, and adds the appropriate applications to it.

To begin, install the [Heroku CLI](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli) and run `heroku login`.

You can deploy your Java application to Heroku in 5 steps:

1. Run `heroku apps:create`
2. Add the Git remote that's created as a remote for your project

       git remote add heroku <heroku-repo>

3. Run `heroku addons:create okta`
4. Create a `Procfile` that sets the `PORT` and your Okta configuration.

        web: java -Dserver.port=$PORT -Dokta.oauth2.client-id=${OKTA_OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID_WEB} -Dokta.oauth2.client-secret=${OKTA_OAUTH2_CLIENT_SECRET_WEB} -jar target/*.jar

5. Commit your changes and run `git push heroku master`

If your branch isn't named `master`, run:

```
git push --set-upstream heroku <branch-name>
```

**TIP**: If you want to use a different version of Java, create a `system.properties` and add `java.runtime.version=11` (or another version) to it.

For more information, see [Deploy a Secure Spring Boot App to Heroku](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2020/08/31/spring-boot-heroku).

### Forcing HTTPS

Commit message:

First draft of Java, JavaScript, and Mobile

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/deploy-to-production/java/index.md, after:

---
title: Java
---

Java applications typically build into a WAR or a JAR for production.

If you deploy your application as a WAR, it's possible you have a context path. If you do, make sure you add this to your Login redirect URI and your Logout redirect URI for your Okta app.

<!--
// todo: show how to do this with the Okta CLI
-->

JAR-based Java apps usually don't have a context, and if you start them locally, they'll be available at `http://localhost:8080`.

### Heroku

The easiest way to deploy your Java app to production with Okta is to use Heroku. We provide an [Okta Heroku Add-on](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/okta) that auto-provisions a Okta org for you, and adds the appropriate applications to it.

To begin, install the [Heroku CLI](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli) and run `heroku login`.

You can deploy your Java application to Heroku in 5 steps:

1. Run `heroku create`
2. Add the Git remote that's created as a remote for your project

       git remote add heroku <heroku-repo>

3. Run `heroku addons:create okta`
4. Create a `Procfile` that sets the `PORT` and your Okta configuration

        web: java -Dserver.port=$PORT -Dokta.oauth2.client-id=${OKTA_OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID_WEB} -Dokta.oauth2.client-secret=${OKTA_OAUTH2_CLIENT_SECRET_WEB} -jar target/*.jar

5. Commit your changes and run `git push heroku master`

If your branch isn't named `master`, run:

```
git push --set-upstream heroku <branch-name>
```

**TIP**: If you want to use a different version of Java, create a `system.properties` and add `java.runtime.version=11` (or another version) to it.

You won't be able to log in to your application until you add your Heroku app's URLs to your Login redirect URIs and Logout redirect URIs on Okta.

For more information, see [Deploy a Secure Spring Boot App to Heroku](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2020/08/31/spring-boot-heroku).

### Forcing HTTPS

You can enforce the use of HTTPS when your app is running on Heroku by adding the following configuration to your security configuration.

```java
@Configuration
public class SecurityConfiguration extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

  @Override
  protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
    http.requiresChannel()
      .requestMatchers(r -> r.getHeader("X-Forwarded-Proto") != null)
      .requiresSecure();
  }
}
```

### Docker

You can package your Java application with Docker, too. See [Angular + Docker with a Big Hug from Spring Boot](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2020/06/17/angular-docker-spring-boot) for a blog post that details how. Specifically, see the [Dockerize Angular + Spring Boot with Jib](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2020/06/17/angular-docker-spring-boot#dockerize-angular-spring-boot-with-jib) section.
