packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/add-an-external-idp/configure-idp-in-okta/index.md, before:

---
title: Create an Identity Provider in Okta
---
To connect your org to the Identity Provider, add and configure that Identity Provider in Okta.

1. From the developer console, hover over **Users** and then select **Social & Identity Providers** from the menu that appears. If you are using the admin console (**Classic UI**), hover over **Security** and then select **Identity Providers**.

2. Select **Add Identity Provider** and then select the appropriate Identity Provider.

3. In the **Add an Identity Provider** dialog box, define the following:

    <StackSelector snippet="appidpinokta" />

4. Click **Add Identity Provider**. The Identity Providers page appears.

5. Locate the Identity Provider that you just added and expand the information.

    <StackSelector snippet="afterappidpinokta" />

### Attribute Mapping
When a user first signs in to Okta using an OpenID Connect Identity Provider, their Identity Provider user profile is mapped to an Okta Universal Directory profile using Just-In-Time provisioning. This user account creation and linking includes default mappings that are based on standard claims defined by the OpenID Connect specification.

To view and modify the mappings, access the Identity Provider that you created by selecting **Social & Identity Providers** from the **Users** menu. Click **Configure** for the Identity Provider and select **Edit Mappings**.

If there are attributes that don't exist in your org's Universal Directory, but are a part of the user's Identity Provider profile, add the attributes by editing the Identity Provider user profile in your org.

See [Manage User Profiles](https://help.okta.com/en/prod/Content/Topics/Directory/eu-profile-editor.htm?cshid=ext_Directory_Profile_Editor) for more information on custom attributes.

<NextSectionLink/>

Commit message:

new apple as idp doc (#1229)
* initial edits

* updates

* more edits

* june 1 edits

* config at apple

* more content

* tweaking apple config section

* apple IdP first draft

* first draft

* a few edits

* api ref content

* review comments

* generalize domain URLs

* &#8212 fix

* removing redirect section and adding redirect content to create an app at the Identity Provider section

* venkat review

* link to apple scopes per zoe

* one more tweak to scope link text

* yu review

* more yu review

* social login updates

* Revert "api ref content"

This reverts commit a6eea2194a0ad91497fc5ce336c7ed8d27fc9010.

* Apple IdP API

Resolves: OKTA-309869

* review comments

* feedback

* adding postman link updates to the api reference doc and the postman collections page

* removing well known configuration urls in openid connect section per venkat v

Co-authored-by: Yu Liu <yu.liu@okta.com>

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/add-an-external-idp/configure-idp-in-okta/index.md, after:

---
title: Create an Identity Provider in Okta
---
To connect your org to the Identity Provider, add and configure that Identity Provider in Okta.

1. From the Developer Console, hover over **Users** and then select **Social & Identity Providers** from the menu that appears. If you are using the Admin Console (**Classic UI**), hover over **Security** and then select **Identity Providers**.

> **Note:** See the [Identity Providers API](/docs/reference/api/idps/#add-identity-provider) for request and response examples of creating an Identity Provider in Okta using the API.

2. Select **Add Identity Provider** and then select the appropriate Identity Provider.

3. In the **Add an Identity Provider** dialog box, define the following:

    <StackSelector snippet="appidpinokta" />

4. Click **Add Identity Provider**. The Identity Providers page appears.

5. Locate the Identity Provider that you just added and click the arrow next to the Identity Provider name to expand.

    <StackSelector snippet="afterappidpinokta" />

### Attribute Mapping
When a user first signs in to Okta using an OpenID Connect Identity Provider, their Identity Provider user profile is mapped to an Okta Universal Directory profile using Just-In-Time provisioning. This user account creation and linking includes default mappings that are based on standard claims defined by the OpenID Connect specification.

To view and modify the mappings, access the Identity Provider that you created by selecting **Social & Identity Providers** from the **Users** menu. Click **Configure** for the Identity Provider and select **Edit Mappings**.

If there are attributes that don't exist in your org's Universal Directory, but are a part of the user's Identity Provider profile, add the attributes by editing the Identity Provider user profile in your org.

See [Manage User Profiles](https://help.okta.com/en/prod/Content/Topics/Directory/eu-profile-editor.htm?cshid=ext_Directory_Profile_Editor) for more information on custom attributes.

<NextSectionLink/>
