packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/build-sso-integration/before-you-begin/openidconnect/prep.md, before:

### Prepare an OIDC integration

Before you create a new OIDC integration in Okta:

<!-- [ian 2020.02.25] this step doesn't matter unless the user can choose something besides the web as a platform
1. Decide which platform you'll be using for the integration:
   * A web application is accessed through the browser and can remain running on a server that can store a secret safely.
   * A native application resides on the end user's device.
   * A single page app (SPA) is a web application that is contained on a single web page. All code is retrieved when the page is loaded initially - the page doesn't reload or refresh. A SPA application cannot keep running on a server.
-->

1. Determine the login redirect URIs on your system. A redirect URI is where Okta sends the authentication response and ID token during the sign-in flow. You can specify more than one URI if required.
1. Your application must support automatic credential rotation. For more information, see the `/keys` section in the [OpenID Connect & OAuth 2.0 API reference](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#key-rotation).
1. Your application must support refresh tokens.

<!-- [ian 2020.02.25] the following steps are unnecessary if we only support web applications in the OIN
1. If your integration is a web or native application, decide whether or not to use refresh tokens.
1. If your application is a SPA, decide what kind of visibility and login flow you want. You can configure your integration in two ways:
   1. The sign-in request is initiated only in the background, and doesn't use an Okta tile.
   1. The sign-in request can be initiated either by the application or by Okta. In this case, there are two flow options:
      * Redirecting to the application to start the sign-in request. This flow conforms to [Section 4](http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#ThirdPartyInitiatedLogin) of the OpenID Connect specification. When the end users click an Okta tile, they are redirected to the `initiate_login_uri` of the client application, which constructs an authorization request and redirects the end user back to Okta.
      * Sending an ID token directly to the application. This is a simpler flow. Okta creates an ID token and posts it directly to the first redirect URI registered for the client application. This flow is the same as with sign-in requests for SAML applications. You can configure which OpenID Connect scopes are granted. The `form_post` response mode is used for this flow. There is no state parameter included in the request, since it is a one-way request and not round-trip.
-->

Commit message:

Update SSO guide with OIDC improvements
Update the sign on guide with improved guidance around using OIDC for OIN applications.

Also fixes "he" usage in the SAML concept topic.

Resolves OKTA-299406

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/build-sso-integration/before-you-begin/openidconnect/prep.md, after:

### Prepare an OIDC integration

Okta uses a multi-tenant local credential system for OIDC. Each instance of your app integration in customer orgs has a separate set of OIDC client credentials that are used to access your application.

For example, consider a scenario where your app integration is added to ten separate customer orgs. Seven of those customers create a single instance of your app integration. However, the other three customers each create two separate instances of your app integration so they can use different configuration options. This creates a total of 13 (7 + (3*2)) sets of client credentials for your application that you need to track.

This multi-tenant approach is different from other IdPs that use a global credential system, where a given application has the same customer credentials across all orgs.

Before you create a new OIDC integration in Okta:

<!-- [ian 2020.02.25] this step doesn't matter unless the user can choose something besides the web as a platform
1. Decide which platform you'll be using for the integration:
   * A web application is accessed through the browser and can remain running on a server that can store a secret safely.
   * A native application resides on the end user's device.
   * A single page app (SPA) is a web application that is contained on a single web page. All code is retrieved when the page is loaded initially - the page doesn't reload or refresh. A SPA application cannot keep running on a server.
-->

1. Have your application developed and tested - with a front-end (e.g. JavaScript/HTML) and back-end (e.g. middleware, database software) stack, with services available through APIs and accepting HTTP connections. 
1. Determine the login redirect URIs on your system. A redirect URI is where Okta sends the authentication response and ID token during the sign-in flow. You can specify more than one URI if required.
1. Your application must support automatic credential rotation. For more information, see the `/keys` section in the [OpenID Connect & OAuth 2.0 API reference](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#key-rotation).
1. Your application must support refresh tokens.

<!-- [ian 2020.02.25] the following steps are unnecessary if we only support web applications in the OIN
1. If your integration is a web or native application, decide whether or not to use refresh tokens.
1. If your application is a SPA, decide what kind of visibility and login flow you want. You can configure your integration in two ways:
   1. The sign-in request is initiated only in the background, and doesn't use an Okta tile.
   1. The sign-in request can be initiated either by the application or by Okta. In this case, there are two flow options:
      * Redirecting to the application to start the sign-in request. This flow conforms to [Section 4](http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#ThirdPartyInitiatedLogin) of the OpenID Connect specification. When the end users click an Okta tile, they are redirected to the `initiate_login_uri` of the client application, which constructs an authorization request and redirects the end user back to Okta.
      * Sending an ID token directly to the application. This is a simpler flow. Okta creates an ID token and posts it directly to the first redirect URI registered for the client application. This flow is the same as with sign-in requests for SAML applications. You can configure which OpenID Connect scopes are granted. The `form_post` response mode is used for this flow. There is no state parameter included in the request, since it is a one-way request and not round-trip.
-->
