packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-overview/main/index.md, before:

---
title: Overview
---

<ApiLifecycle access="ie" /><br>

<div class="oie-embedded-sdk">

This document describes how to integrate user sign in, self-registration, and
other features of an identity solution into your app using Okta’s IDX SDK.
All the code samples come from the SDK’s sample application that is provided with the IDX SDK.

### Why you would want to use IDX SDK

Several reasons why you would choose the IDX SDK include:

1. Customized user experience
1. Branding requirements

For a full list of reasons and a complete overview of the different deployment
models see
[Federated Authentication Vs Direct Authentication](/docs/concepts/hosted-vs-embedded/#okta-hosted-vs-customer-hosted).

### The IDX SDK flow

The IDX SDK allows you to integrate a fully customizable identity solution
within your application. The SDK is integrated within your application and
provides a native language interface for user sign in and other features of
the Okta identity solution.  The SDK in turn accesses the Okta platform using
a REST interface. The flow is summarized below:

<div class="common-image-format">

![Embedded SDK overview](/img/oie-embedded-sdk/embedded-sdk-overview.png
 "Overview the of the embedded SDK")

</div>

### Get started using the SDK

To get started using the SDK following the steps below.

1. [Create your account and setup your okta org](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-setup/aspnet/oie-embedded-sdk-org-setup/)
2. [Download and setup the SDK and sample app](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-setup/aspnet/oie-embedded-sdk-sample-app-setup/)
3. Using the sample app as your guide, integrate the SDK into your app using the available
   [use cases](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-use-cases/aspnet/oie-embedded-sdk-use-case-overview/)

</div>

Commit message:

Continual updates to the OIE Embedded docs

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-overview/main/index.md, after:

---
title: Overview
---

<ApiLifecycle access="ie" /><br>

<div class="oie-embedded-sdk">

This document describes how to integrate user sign in, self-registration, and
other features into your app using Okta’s embedded SDK. Most of the code
samples in this guide are derived from the included sample application that
is provided with the SDK.

## Why you would want to use the embedded SDK

Several reasons why you would choose the embedded SDK include:

1. Customized user experience
1. Branding requirements

For a full list of reasons and a complete overview of the different deployment
models see
[Federated Authentication Vs Direct Authentication](/docs/concepts/hosted-vs-embedded/#okta-hosted-vs-customer-hosted).

## The SDK flow

The SDK integrates into your application using a native language
interface and communicates directly with the Okta APIs using a
REST interface. The flow is summarized below:

<div class="common-image-format">

![Embedded SDK overview](/img/oie-embedded-sdk/embedded-sdk-overview.png
 "Overview the of the embedded SDK")

</div>

## Get started using the SDK

To get started using the SDK following the steps below.

1. [Create your account and setup your okta org](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-setup/aspnet/oie-embedded-sdk-org-setup/)
2. [Download and setup the SDK and sample app](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-setup/aspnet/oie-embedded-sdk-sample-app-setup/)
3. Using the sample app as your guide, integrate the SDK into your app using the available
   [use cases](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-use-cases/aspnet/oie-embedded-sdk-use-case-overview/)

</div>
