* **Name**: Enter a name for the Identity Provider configuration.
* **Client ID**: Paste the Services ID that you obtained from <StackSnippet snippet="idp" inline /> when you configured the Identity Provider in the previous section. The Services ID identifies the particular instance of your app and is used as the OAuth `client_id`.
* **Client Secret Signing Key**: Click **Browse files** and locate the key file (.p8 format) that you downloaded from <StackSnippet snippet="idp" inline /> when you created the private key for client authentication in the previous section.
* **Key ID**: Enter the Key ID that you obtained from <StackSelector snippet="idp" noSelector inline /> when you created the private key for client authentication in the previous section. The Key ID represents the private key generated by <StackSelector snippet="idp" noSelector inline />.
* **Team ID**: Enter your <StackSelector snippet="idp" noSelector inline /> Team ID. This value must be the Team ID from your <StackSelector snippet="idp" noSelector inline /> developer account. You can find this ID in the upper-right corner of your <StackSelector snippet="idp" noSelector inline /> developer dashboard just below your account name.
* **Scopes**: Leave the defaults. These scopes are included when Okta makes an OpenID Connect request to <StackSelector snippet="idp" noSelector inline />. See the [scope page](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/sign_in_with_apple/clientconfigi/3230955-scope) at <StackSelector snippet="idp" noSelector inline /> for more information on their required scopes.

    By default, Okta requires the `email` attribute for a user. The `email` scope is required to create and link the user to Okta's Universal Directory. For Just In Time (JIT) provisioning, Okta also requires the `firstName` and `lastName` attributes for a user. Include the `name` scope if the Identity Provider needs to support JIT.
