packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/quickstart/register-app/website/register-app.md, before:

In the Admin Console, complete these steps to create a web app with OpenID Connect (OIDC) sign-in:

1. Select **Applications > Applications** in the side navigation.

2. Click **Add Application**.

3. From the **Add Application** page, click **Create New App**.

4. Select **Web** for the **Platform**.
> **Note:** **Web** is typically used for applications using tokens in server-side code. For applications using tokens in Angular, React, Vue, or other browser-side code, choose **Single Page App (SPA)**.

5. Select **OpenID Connect** for the **Sign on method**.

6. Click **Create**.

7. From the **Create OpenID Connect App Integration** page, specify your **Application name**.

8. Next to **Login redirect URIs**, click **+ Add URI** to specify each login redirect URI for your app. Okta sends OAuth authorization responses to the specified URIs, which are also known as callback endpoints. For the Okta sample apps, you can specify `http://localhost:8080/authorization-code/callback` as a login redirect URI.

9. Next to **Logout redirect URIs**, click **+ Add URI** to specify the logout redirect URI. This setting lets you specify a URI to redirect the user’s browser to when they sign out. For the Okta sample apps, you don't need to specify a logout redirect URI.

10. Click **Save**.

Your registered app page is displayed.

From the **General** tab, save the following client credentials for your app build:
- **Client ID**&mdash;the public identifier for the client that is required for all OAuth flows
- **Client secret**&mdash;the secret key used by the client to exchange an authorization code for a token (must be kept confidential)

Remaining in the Admin Console, navigate to **Security > API**. From the **Authorization Servers** tab, save the following value from your **default** authorization server:
- **Issuer URI**&mdash;the authorization server URI that will perform authentication

Commit message:

Update redirect URIs to match Okta samples (#2020)
* Update redirect URIs to match Okta samples

* Add CLI verbage to match console

* Polishing for SPA apps

* Update based on @vanngo-okta's suggestions

Co-authored-by: vanngo-okta <80703015+vanngo-okta@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: vanngo-okta <80703015+vanngo-okta@users.noreply.github.com>

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/quickstart/register-app/website/register-app.md, after:

In the Admin Console, complete these steps to create a web app with OpenID Connect (OIDC) sign-in:

1. Select **Applications > Applications** in the side navigation.

2. Click **Add Application**.

3. From the **Add Application** page, click **Create New App**.

4. Select **Web** for the **Platform**.
> **Note:** **Web** is typically used for applications using tokens in server-side code. For applications using tokens in Angular, React, Vue, or other browser-side code, choose **Single Page App (SPA)**.

5. Select **OpenID Connect** for the **Sign on method**.

6. Click **Create**.

7. From the **Create OpenID Connect App Integration** page, specify your **Application name**.

8. Next to **Login redirect URIs**, click **+ Add URI** to specify each login redirect URI for your app. Okta sends OAuth authorization responses to the specified URIs, which are also known as callback endpoints. For the Okta sample **Web** apps, specify `http://localhost:8080/authorization-code/callback` as a login redirect URI. For **SPA** samples, use `http://localhost:8080/login/callback`.

9. Next to **Logout redirect URIs**, click **+ Add URI** to specify the logout redirect URI. This setting lets you specify a URI to redirect the user’s browser to when they sign out. For the Okta sample **Web** apps, you don't need to specify a logout redirect URI. For **SPA** apps, use the base URI, e.g., `http://localhost:8080`.

10. Click **Save**.

Your registered app page is displayed.

From the **General** tab, save the following client credentials for your app build:
- **Client ID**&mdash;the public identifier for the client that is required for all OAuth flows
- **Client secret**&mdash;the secret key used by the client to exchange an authorization code for a token (must be kept confidential)

Remaining in the Admin Console, navigate to **Security > API**. From the **Authorization Servers** tab, save the following value from your **default** authorization server:
- **Issuer URI**&mdash;the authorization server URI that will perform authentication

If you create a **SPA** app, make sure to register its trusted origin to enable CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing). Navigate to **Security > API > Trusted Origins** and add `http://localhost:8080` (select both CORS and redirect).
