packages/@okta/vuepress-site/code/vue/okta_vue_sign-in_widget/index.md, before:

---
title: Okta Sign-In Widget and Vue
language: Vue
icon: code-vue
excerpt: Integrate Okta with a Vue app using the Sign-In Widget.
---

This guide will walk you through integrating authentication into a Vue app with Okta by performing these steps:

1. [Add an OpenID Connect Client in Okta](#add-an-openid-connect-client-in-okta)
2. [Create a Vue App](#create-a-vue-app)
3. [Install Dependencies](#install-dependencies)
4. [Create a Widget Wrapper](#create-a-widget-wrapper)
5. [Create Routes](#create-routes)
6. [Connect the Routes](#connect-the-routes)
7. [Start Your App](#start-your-app)

## Prerequisites

If you do not already have a **Developer Edition Account**, you can create one at <https://developer.okta.com/signup/>.

## Add an OpenID Connect Client in Okta

* Sign in to the Okta Developer Dashboard, and select **Create New App**
* Choose **Single Page App (SPA)** as the platform, then populate your new OpenID Connect app with values similar to:

| Setting              | Value                                               |
| -------------------  | --------------------------------------------------- |
| App Name             | OpenId Connect App (must be unique)                 |
| Login redirect URIs  | `http://localhost:8080/login/callback`              |
| Logout redirect URIs | `http://localhost:8080`                             |
| Allowed grant types  | Authorization Code                                  |

> **Note:** CORS is automatically enabled for the granted login redirect URIs.

## Create a Vue App

To quickly create a Vue app, we recommend the Vue CLI.

```bash
npm install -g @vue/cli
vue create okta-app
# Manually select features: choose defaults + Router
# Choose history mode for router
cd okta-app
```

If you need more information, see [the Vue CLI installation guide](https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/installation.html).

## Install Dependencies

A simple way to add authentication into a Vue app is using the [Okta Sign-In Widget](/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/) library. You can install it via `npm`:

```bash
cd okta-app
npm install @okta/okta-signin-widget
```

You'll also need `@okta/okta-vue` for route protection:

```bash
npm install @okta/okta-vue
```

## Create a Widget Wrapper

To provide a fully-featured and customizable sign-in experience, the [Okta Sign-In Widget](/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/) is available to handle User Lifecycle operations, MFA, and more. To render the Sign-In Widget in Vue, you must create a wrapper that allows us to treat it as a Vue component.

Create a `src/components/Login.vue` file:

```html
<template>
  <div class="login">
    <div id="okta-signin-container"></div>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
import OktaSignIn from '@okta/okta-signin-widget'
import '@okta/okta-signin-widget/dist/css/okta-sign-in.min.css'

export default {
  name: 'Login',
  mounted: function () {
    this.$nextTick(function () {
      this.widget = new OktaSignIn({
        baseUrl: 'https://{yourOktaDomain}',
        clientId: '{clientId}',
        redirectUri: 'http://localhost:8080/login/callback',
        authParams: {
          pkce: true,
          issuer: 'https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default',
          display: 'page',
          scopes: ['openid', 'profile', 'email']
        }
      })
      this.widget.renderEl(
        { el: '#okta-signin-container' },
        () => {
          /**
           * In this flow, the success handler will not be called because
           * there's a redirect to the Okta org for the authentication workflow.
           */
        },
        (err) => {
          throw err
        }
      )
    })
  },
  destroyed () {
    // Remove the widget from the DOM on path change
    this.widget.remove()
  }
}
</script>
```

## Create Routes

Some routes require authentication in order to render. Defining those routes is easy using Vue Router and `@okta/okta-vue`. Let's take a look at what routes are needed for this example:

* `/`: A default page to handle basic control of the app.
* `/profile`: A protected route to the current user's profile.
* `/login`: Show the sign-in page.
* `/login/callback`: A route to parse tokens after a redirect.

### `/`

First, update `src/App.vue` to provide links to navigate your app:

```html
<template>
  <div id="app">
    <nav>
      <div>
        <router-link to="/">
          Okta-Vue Sample Project
        </router-link>
        <router-link to="/login" v-if="!authenticated">
          Login
        </router-link>
        <router-link to="/profile" v-if="authenticated" >
          Profile
        </router-link>
        <router-link to="/" v-if="authenticated" v-on:click.native="logout()">
          Logout
        </router-link>
      </div>
    </nav>
    <div id="content">
      <router-view/>
    </div>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: 'app',
  data: function () {
    return { authenticated: false }
  },
  created () { this.isAuthenticated() },
  watch: {
    // Everytime the route changes, check for auth status
    '$route': 'isAuthenticated'
  },
  methods: {
    async isAuthenticated () {
      this.authenticated = await this.$auth.isAuthenticated()
    },
    async logout () {
      await this.$auth.logout()
      await this.isAuthenticated()
    }
  }
}
</script>

<style>
nav div a { margin-right: 10px }
</style>
```

Next, create `src/components/Home.vue` to welcome the user after they've signed in.

```html
<template>
  <div id="home">
    <h1>Custom Login Page with Sign In Widget</h1>
    <div v-if="!this.$parent.authenticated">
      <p>Hello, Vue.</p>
      <router-link role="button" to="/login">
        Login
      </router-link>
    </div>

    <div v-if="this.$parent.authenticated">
      <p>Welcome back, {{claims.name}}!</p>
      <p>
        You have successfully authenticated with Okta!
        Visit the <a href="/profile">My Profile</a> page to take a look inside the ID token.
      </p>
    </div>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: 'home',
  data: function () {
    return {
      claims: ''
    }
  },
  created () { this.setup() },
  methods: {
    async setup () {
      this.claims = await this.$auth.getUser()
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

### `/profile`

This route will only be visible to users with a valid `accessToken`.

Create a new `Profile` component at `src/components/Profile.vue`:

```html
<template>
  <div id="profile">
    <h1>My User Profile (ID Token Claims)</h1>
    <p>
      Below is the information from your ID token.
    </p>
    <table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th>Claim</th>
          <th>Value</th>
        </tr>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
        <tr v-for="(claim, index) in claims" :key="index">
          <td>{{claim.claim}}</td>
          <td :id="'claim-' + claim.claim">{{claim.value}}</td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: 'Profile',
  data () {
    return {
      claims: []
    }
  },
  async created () {
    this.claims = await Object.entries(await this.$auth.getUser()).map(entry => ({ claim: entry[0], value: entry[1] }))
  }
}
</script>
```

### `/login`

This route hosts the Sign-In Widget and redirects if the user is already logged in. If the user is coming from a protected page, they'll be redirected back to the page upon successful sign in.

You should have already created `src/components/Login.vue` at the beginning of this guide.

### `/login/callback`

The component for this route (LoginCallback) comes with `@okta/okta-vue`. It handles token parsing, token storage, and redirecting to a protected page if one triggered the sign in.

### Connect the Routes

This example is using Vue Router. Replace the code in `src/router/index.js` with the following:

```js
import Vue from 'vue'
import VueRouter from 'vue-router'
import Auth from '@okta/okta-vue'
import HomeComponent from '@/components/Home'
import LoginComponent from '@/components/Login'
import ProfileComponent from '@/components/Profile'

Vue.use(VueRouter)
Vue.use(Auth, {
  issuer: 'https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default',
  clientId: '{clientId}',
  redirectUri: window.location.origin + '/login/callback',
  scopes: ['openid', 'profile', 'email']
})

const router = new VueRouter({
  mode: 'history',
  routes: [
    {
      path: '/',
      component: HomeComponent
    },
    {
      path: '/login',
      component: LoginComponent
    },
    {
      path: '/login/callback',
      component: Auth.handleCallback()
    },
    {
      path: '/profile',
      component: ProfileComponent,
      meta: {
        requiresAuth: true
      }
    }
  ]
})

const onAuthRequired = async (from, to, next) => {
  if (from.matched.some(record => record.meta.requiresAuth) && !(await Vue.prototype.$auth.isAuthenticated())) {
    // Navigate to custom login page
    next({ path: '/login' })
  } else {
    next()
  }
}

router.beforeEach(onAuthRequired)

export default router
```

Make sure to replace the `{...}` placeholders with values from your OIDC app on Okta.

## Start your app

Finally, start your app:

```bash
npm run serve
```

## Conclusion

You have now successfully authenticated with Okta! Now what? With a user's `id_token`, you have basic claims for the user's identity. You can extend the set of claims by modifying the `scopes` to retrieve custom information about the user. This includes `locale`, `address`, `groups`, and [more](/docs/reference/api/oidc/).

Want to learn how to use the user's `access_token`? Check out our <a href='/docs/guides/sign-into-spa/vue/before-you-begin/' data-proofer-ignore>Vue how to guide</a> to learn about protecting routes on your server, validating the `access_token`, and more!

## Support

Have a question or see a bug? Post your question on the [Okta Developer Forums](https://devforum.okta.com/).

Commit message:

add more of application type warnings

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/code/vue/okta_vue_sign-in_widget/index.md, after:

---
title: Okta Sign-In Widget and Vue
language: Vue
icon: code-vue
excerpt: Integrate Okta with a Vue app using the Sign-In Widget.
---

This guide will walk you through integrating authentication into a Vue app with Okta by performing these steps:

1. [Add an OpenID Connect Client in Okta](#add-an-openid-connect-client-in-okta)
2. [Create a Vue App](#create-a-vue-app)
3. [Install Dependencies](#install-dependencies)
4. [Create a Widget Wrapper](#create-a-widget-wrapper)
5. [Create Routes](#create-routes)
6. [Connect the Routes](#connect-the-routes)
7. [Start Your App](#start-your-app)

## Prerequisites

If you do not already have a **Developer Edition Account**, you can create one at <https://developer.okta.com/signup/>.

## Add an OpenID Connect Client in Okta

* Sign in to the Okta Developer Dashboard, and select **Create New App**
* Choose **Single Page App (SPA)** as the platform, then populate your new OpenID Connect app with values similar to:

| Setting              | Value                                               |
| -------------------  | --------------------------------------------------- |
| App Name             | OpenId Connect App (must be unique)                 |
| Login redirect URIs  | `http://localhost:8080/login/callback`              |
| Logout redirect URIs | `http://localhost:8080`                             |
| Allowed grant types  | Authorization Code                                  |

> **Note:** It is important to choose the appropriate application type for apps which are public clients. Failing to do so may result in Okta API endpoints attempting to verify an app's client secret, which public clients are not designed to have, hence breaking the sign-in or sign-out flow.

> **Note:** CORS is automatically enabled for the granted login redirect URIs.

## Create a Vue App

To quickly create a Vue app, we recommend the Vue CLI.

```bash
npm install -g @vue/cli
vue create okta-app
# Manually select features: choose defaults + Router
# Choose history mode for router
cd okta-app
```

If you need more information, see [the Vue CLI installation guide](https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/installation.html).

## Install Dependencies

A simple way to add authentication into a Vue app is using the [Okta Sign-In Widget](/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/) library. You can install it via `npm`:

```bash
cd okta-app
npm install @okta/okta-signin-widget
```

You'll also need `@okta/okta-vue` for route protection:

```bash
npm install @okta/okta-vue
```

## Create a Widget Wrapper

To provide a fully-featured and customizable sign-in experience, the [Okta Sign-In Widget](/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/) is available to handle User Lifecycle operations, MFA, and more. To render the Sign-In Widget in Vue, you must create a wrapper that allows us to treat it as a Vue component.

Create a `src/components/Login.vue` file:

```html
<template>
  <div class="login">
    <div id="okta-signin-container"></div>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
import OktaSignIn from '@okta/okta-signin-widget'
import '@okta/okta-signin-widget/dist/css/okta-sign-in.min.css'

export default {
  name: 'Login',
  mounted: function () {
    this.$nextTick(function () {
      this.widget = new OktaSignIn({
        baseUrl: 'https://{yourOktaDomain}',
        clientId: '{clientId}',
        redirectUri: 'http://localhost:8080/login/callback',
        authParams: {
          pkce: true,
          issuer: 'https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default',
          display: 'page',
          scopes: ['openid', 'profile', 'email']
        }
      })
      this.widget.renderEl(
        { el: '#okta-signin-container' },
        () => {
          /**
           * In this flow, the success handler will not be called because
           * there's a redirect to the Okta org for the authentication workflow.
           */
        },
        (err) => {
          throw err
        }
      )
    })
  },
  destroyed () {
    // Remove the widget from the DOM on path change
    this.widget.remove()
  }
}
</script>
```

## Create Routes

Some routes require authentication in order to render. Defining those routes is easy using Vue Router and `@okta/okta-vue`. Let's take a look at what routes are needed for this example:

* `/`: A default page to handle basic control of the app.
* `/profile`: A protected route to the current user's profile.
* `/login`: Show the sign-in page.
* `/login/callback`: A route to parse tokens after a redirect.

### `/`

First, update `src/App.vue` to provide links to navigate your app:

```html
<template>
  <div id="app">
    <nav>
      <div>
        <router-link to="/">
          Okta-Vue Sample Project
        </router-link>
        <router-link to="/login" v-if="!authenticated">
          Login
        </router-link>
        <router-link to="/profile" v-if="authenticated" >
          Profile
        </router-link>
        <router-link to="/" v-if="authenticated" v-on:click.native="logout()">
          Logout
        </router-link>
      </div>
    </nav>
    <div id="content">
      <router-view/>
    </div>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: 'app',
  data: function () {
    return { authenticated: false }
  },
  created () { this.isAuthenticated() },
  watch: {
    // Everytime the route changes, check for auth status
    '$route': 'isAuthenticated'
  },
  methods: {
    async isAuthenticated () {
      this.authenticated = await this.$auth.isAuthenticated()
    },
    async logout () {
      await this.$auth.logout()
      await this.isAuthenticated()
    }
  }
}
</script>

<style>
nav div a { margin-right: 10px }
</style>
```

Next, create `src/components/Home.vue` to welcome the user after they've signed in.

```html
<template>
  <div id="home">
    <h1>Custom Login Page with Sign In Widget</h1>
    <div v-if="!this.$parent.authenticated">
      <p>Hello, Vue.</p>
      <router-link role="button" to="/login">
        Login
      </router-link>
    </div>

    <div v-if="this.$parent.authenticated">
      <p>Welcome back, {{claims.name}}!</p>
      <p>
        You have successfully authenticated with Okta!
        Visit the <a href="/profile">My Profile</a> page to take a look inside the ID token.
      </p>
    </div>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: 'home',
  data: function () {
    return {
      claims: ''
    }
  },
  created () { this.setup() },
  methods: {
    async setup () {
      this.claims = await this.$auth.getUser()
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

### `/profile`

This route will only be visible to users with a valid `accessToken`.

Create a new `Profile` component at `src/components/Profile.vue`:

```html
<template>
  <div id="profile">
    <h1>My User Profile (ID Token Claims)</h1>
    <p>
      Below is the information from your ID token.
    </p>
    <table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th>Claim</th>
          <th>Value</th>
        </tr>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
        <tr v-for="(claim, index) in claims" :key="index">
          <td>{{claim.claim}}</td>
          <td :id="'claim-' + claim.claim">{{claim.value}}</td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: 'Profile',
  data () {
    return {
      claims: []
    }
  },
  async created () {
    this.claims = await Object.entries(await this.$auth.getUser()).map(entry => ({ claim: entry[0], value: entry[1] }))
  }
}
</script>
```

### `/login`

This route hosts the Sign-In Widget and redirects if the user is already logged in. If the user is coming from a protected page, they'll be redirected back to the page upon successful sign in.

You should have already created `src/components/Login.vue` at the beginning of this guide.

### `/login/callback`

The component for this route (LoginCallback) comes with `@okta/okta-vue`. It handles token parsing, token storage, and redirecting to a protected page if one triggered the sign in.

### Connect the Routes

This example is using Vue Router. Replace the code in `src/router/index.js` with the following:

```js
import Vue from 'vue'
import VueRouter from 'vue-router'
import Auth from '@okta/okta-vue'
import HomeComponent from '@/components/Home'
import LoginComponent from '@/components/Login'
import ProfileComponent from '@/components/Profile'

Vue.use(VueRouter)
Vue.use(Auth, {
  issuer: 'https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default',
  clientId: '{clientId}',
  redirectUri: window.location.origin + '/login/callback',
  scopes: ['openid', 'profile', 'email']
})

const router = new VueRouter({
  mode: 'history',
  routes: [
    {
      path: '/',
      component: HomeComponent
    },
    {
      path: '/login',
      component: LoginComponent
    },
    {
      path: '/login/callback',
      component: Auth.handleCallback()
    },
    {
      path: '/profile',
      component: ProfileComponent,
      meta: {
        requiresAuth: true
      }
    }
  ]
})

const onAuthRequired = async (from, to, next) => {
  if (from.matched.some(record => record.meta.requiresAuth) && !(await Vue.prototype.$auth.isAuthenticated())) {
    // Navigate to custom login page
    next({ path: '/login' })
  } else {
    next()
  }
}

router.beforeEach(onAuthRequired)

export default router
```

Make sure to replace the `{...}` placeholders with values from your OIDC app on Okta.

## Start your app

Finally, start your app:

```bash
npm run serve
```

## Conclusion

You have now successfully authenticated with Okta! Now what? With a user's `id_token`, you have basic claims for the user's identity. You can extend the set of claims by modifying the `scopes` to retrieve custom information about the user. This includes `locale`, `address`, `groups`, and [more](/docs/reference/api/oidc/).

Want to learn how to use the user's `access_token`? Check out our <a href='/docs/guides/sign-into-spa/vue/before-you-begin/' data-proofer-ignore>Vue how to guide</a> to learn about protecting routes on your server, validating the `access_token`, and more!

## Support

Have a question or see a bug? Post your question on the [Okta Developer Forums](https://devforum.okta.com/).
