packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/build-self-signed-jwt/overview/index.md, before:

---
title: Overview
---
JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) allow claims, such as user data, to be represented in a secure manner, helping to ensure trust and security in your app. JWTs are an open standard, and there are various libraries available that allow you to create, verify, and inspect them.

Okta uses JWTs for many purposes. For example, when you make requests to Okta API endpoints that require [client authentication](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#client-authentication-methods), you can optionally use a JWT for additional security.

Use this guide to understand:

* How to build a signed JWT for use when making requests to the OpenID Connect endpoints
* Which claims are required in your JWT payload
* How to sign the JWT with a shared secret or a private key

### JWT Types
There are two types of self-signed JWT assertions that you can build for use when you make requests to endpoints that require client authentication:

* JWT With a Shared Key (`client_secret_jwt`)
* JWT With a Private Key (`private_key_jwt`)

The difference between building these two types of assertions is the algorithm and key used to sign the JWT.

Which JWT type that you use depends on the client authentication method configured in your OAuth 2.0 client application. See [Client Authentication Methods](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#client-authentication-methods) for more information on the supported methods and when to use them.

> **Note:** To create a client application and specify either the `client_secret_jwt` or `private_key_jwt` authentication method, see the [Add OAuth 2.0 Client Application](/docs/reference/api/apps/#add-oauth-2-0-client-application) API reference section. To change the client authentication method of an existing app, see the [Update the Client Authentication Method](/docs/reference/api/apps/#update-the-client-authentication-method) API reference section.

> **Tip:** Don't know which method is configured for your client app? You can quickly check the settings by doing a GET to `https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/apps/${appId}`.

<NextSectionLink/>

Commit message:

Standardizes support instructions for guides
For all guides in the library:
* Moved (or added) instructions on how to get support through the developer forum from the last page of the guide to the first page
* Shortened the text pointing developers to get a free developer org, as it was wrapping weirdly in all the guides.
* Cleaned up a few places where there were extra spaces or new lines at the ends of files.

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/build-self-signed-jwt/overview/index.md, after:

---
title: Overview
---
JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) allow claims, such as user data, to be represented in a secure manner, helping to ensure trust and security in your app. JWTs are an open standard, and there are various libraries available that allow you to create, verify, and inspect them.

Okta uses JWTs for many purposes. For example, when you make requests to Okta API endpoints that require [client authentication](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#client-authentication-methods), you can optionally use a JWT for additional security.

Use this guide to understand:

* How to build a signed JWT for use when making requests to the OpenID Connect endpoints
* Which claims are required in your JWT payload
* How to sign the JWT with a shared secret or a private key

### JWT Types
There are two types of self-signed JWT assertions that you can build for use when you make requests to endpoints that require client authentication:

* JWT With a Shared Key (`client_secret_jwt`)
* JWT With a Private Key (`private_key_jwt`)

The difference between building these two types of assertions is the algorithm and key used to sign the JWT.

Which JWT type that you use depends on the client authentication method configured in your OAuth 2.0 client application. See [Client Authentication Methods](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#client-authentication-methods) for more information on the supported methods and when to use them.

> **Note:** To create a client application and specify either the `client_secret_jwt` or `private_key_jwt` authentication method, see the [Add OAuth 2.0 Client Application](/docs/reference/api/apps/#add-oauth-2-0-client-application) API reference section. To change the client authentication method of an existing app, see the [Update the Client Authentication Method](/docs/reference/api/apps/#update-the-client-authentication-method) API reference section.

> **Tip:** Don't know which method is configured for your client app? You can quickly check the settings by doing a GET to `https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/apps/${appId}`.

## Support

If you need help or have an issue, post a question in our [Developer Forum](https://devforum.okta.com).

<NextSectionLink/>
