packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/implement-oauth-for-okta/create-oauth-app/index.md, before:

---
title: Create an OAuth 2.0 app in Okta
---
Create the client application that you want to use with the Okta APIs.

1. Sign in to your Okta organization as a user with administrative privileges. [Create an org for free](https://developer.okta.com/signup).

    > **Note:** Make sure that you are using the Developer Console. If you see **Classic UI** in the top left of the page, click it and select **Developer Console** to switch.

2. Click **Applications** from the menu, and then click **Add Application**.

3. On the **Create New Application** page, select any app type and then click **Next**. We suggest creating a web, single-page, or native app for an easy way to test scope-based access to Okta's APIs using an OAuth 2.0 bearer token.

4. Enter a name for your app and, in the **Login redirect URIs** box, specify the callback location where Okta returns a browser (along with the token) after the user finishes authenticating.

5. We recommend that you always use the Authorization Code grant flow and clear the **Implicit (Hybrid)** check box.

    > **Note:** You can leave the rest of the defaults as they work with this guide for testing purposes.

6. Click **Done**. The application's page appears and you land on the application's **General** tab. Make note of the **Client ID** listed in the **Client Credentials** section at the bottom of the page. You need this in the <GuideLink link="../request-access-token">Request an access token</GuideLink> section.

7. Click **Assignments** and ensure that the right users are assigned to the app. For more information about which users have access to which scopes, see the <GuideLink link="../scopes">Scopes and supported endpoints</GuideLink> section.

<NextSectionLink/>

Commit message:

warn users about application type mismatch in create Okta app guide sections

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/implement-oauth-for-okta/create-oauth-app/index.md, after:

---
title: Create an OAuth 2.0 app in Okta
---
Create the client application that you want to use with the Okta APIs.

1. Sign in to your Okta organization as a user with administrative privileges. [Create an org for free](https://developer.okta.com/signup).

    > **Note:** Make sure that you are using the Developer Console. If you see **Classic UI** in the top left of the page, click it and select **Developer Console** to switch.

2. Click **Applications** from the menu, and then click **Add Application**.

3. On the **Create New Application** page, select any app type and then click **Next**. We suggest creating a web, single-page, or native app for an easy way to test scope-based access to Okta's APIs using an OAuth 2.0 bearer token.
  > **Note:** It is important to choose appropirate application type for apps which are public clients. Failing to do so may result in Okta API endpoints attempting to verify app's client secret, which public client are not designed to have, hence breaking sign in or sign out flow.

4. Enter a name for your app and, in the **Login redirect URIs** box, specify the callback location where Okta returns a browser (along with the token) after the user finishes authenticating.

5. We recommend that you always use the Authorization Code grant flow and clear the **Implicit (Hybrid)** check box.

    > **Note:** You can leave the rest of the defaults as they work with this guide for testing purposes.

6. Click **Done**. The application's page appears and you land on the application's **General** tab. Make note of the **Client ID** listed in the **Client Credentials** section at the bottom of the page. You need this in the <GuideLink link="../request-access-token">Request an access token</GuideLink> section.

7. Click **Assignments** and ensure that the right users are assigned to the app. For more information about which users have access to which scopes, see the <GuideLink link="../scopes">Scopes and supported endpoints</GuideLink> section.

<NextSectionLink/>
