packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/oie-embedded-widget-setup/main/index.md, before:

---
title: Widget setup
excerpt: Widget setup
layout: Guides
---

<div class="oie-embedded-sdk">

<ApiLifecycle access="ie" /><br>

## Overview

This document describes how to integrate user sign using Okta’s embedded widget.
All the code samples come from the SDK’s sample application that is provided with the SDK.

## Before you begin

Before you can start integrating the widget into your application,
you need to do the following:

1. [Create your Okta Account](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-setup/oie-embedded-sdk-org-setup/#create-your-okta-account)
1. Setup your Okta org. For the use cases in this guide,
   you will need to perform the following:

   1. [Set up your Okta org (for password factor only use cases)](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-setup/aspnet/oie-embedded-sdk-org-setup/#set-up-your-okta-org-for-password-factor-only-use-cases).
   (Link points to the SDK Guide)
1. [Download and setup the SDK and sample app](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-setup/aspnet/oie-embedded-sdk-sample-app-setup/)
   (Link points to the SDK Guide)
1. [Add a trusted origins and enable CORS](#add-a-trusted-origin-and-enable-cors)

## Add a trusted origin and enable CORS

1. In the Admin console (for the Okta org you set up in the previous step),
   select **Security > API** from the left navigation menu.
1. In the **API** page click on the **Trusted Origins** tab:
1. Under the Trusted Origins tab click on **Add Origin**.
   1. In the Add Origin dialog do the following:
      1. Set a origin name (e.g. MyOrigin)
      1. Add the url to your application. If you are using the
         sample application, use `https://localhost:44314/`
      1. Under Type, check the **CORS** and **Redirect** checkboxes.
      1. Click **Save**.

</div>

Commit message:

Added content to the embedded widget

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/oie-embedded-widget-setup/main/index.md, after:

---
title: Widget setup
excerpt: Widget setup
layout: Guides
---

<div class="oie-embedded-sdk">

<ApiLifecycle access="ie" /><br>

<StackSelector class="cleaner-selector"/>

## Overview

This document describes how to integrate user sign using Okta’s embedded widget.
All the code samples come from the SDK’s sample application that is provided with the SDK.

## Before you begin

Before you can start integrating the widget into your application,
you need to do the following:

1. [Create your Okta Account](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-setup/oie-embedded-sdk-org-setup/#create-your-okta-account)
1. Setup your Okta org. For the use cases in this guide,
   you will need to perform the following:

   1. [Set up your Okta org (for password factor only use cases)](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-setup/aspnet/oie-embedded-sdk-org-setup/#set-up-your-okta-org-for-password-factor-only-use-cases).
1. [Download and setup the SDK and sample app](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-setup/aspnet/oie-embedded-sdk-sample-app-setup/)
1. Open the embedded widget sample app. The embedded widget sample app
   has the identical setup as the SDK sample app and reads the configurations
   (e.g. `okta.yaml`) in the same manner. The location of the widget sample app is located here:
   <StackSelector snippet="widgetsampleapplocation" noSelector />

1. [Add a trusted origins and enable CORS](#add-a-trusted-origin-and-enable-cors)

## Add a trusted origin and enable CORS

1. In the Admin console (for the Okta org you set up in the previous step),
   select **Security > API** from the left navigation menu.
1. In the **API** page click on the **Trusted Origins** tab:
1. Under the Trusted Origins tab click on **Add Origin**.
   1. In the Add Origin dialog do the following:
      1. Set a origin name (e.g. MyOrigin)
      1. Add the url to your application. If you are using the
         sample application, use `https://localhost:44314/`
      1. Under Type, check the **CORS** and **Redirect** checkboxes.
      1. Click **Save**.

## Now your ready to start working with the use cases!

Now that you have
[created and configured your Okta org](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-setup/aspnet/oie-embedded-sdk-org-setup/)
and
[setup the SDK and sample](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-setup/aspnet/oie-embedded-sdk-sample-app-setup/),
the next step is to start working with the available use cases.
See [Start with a use case overview](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-widget-use-cases/aspnet/oie-embedded-widget-use-case-overview/)
for further details.

</div>
