packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/implement-implicit/overview/index.md, before:

---
title: Overview
---

If you are building a Single-Page Application (SPA) that runs in older browsers that don't support Web Crypto for PKCE, then the Implicit flow is the recommended method for controlling access between your SPA and a resource server. The Implicit flow is intended for applications where the confidentiality of the client secret can't be guaranteed. In this flow, the client doesn't make a request to the `/token` endpoint, but instead receives the access token directly from the `/authorize` endpoint.  The client must be capable of interacting with the resource owner's user agent and capable of receiving incoming requests (through redirection) from the authorization server.

> **Note:** For SPAs running in modern browsers that support Web Crypto for PKCE, we recommend using the [Authorization Code Flow with PKCE](/docs/guides/implement-auth-code-pkce/) instead for maximum security.

At a high level, the Implicit flow has the following steps:

- Your application directs the browser to the Okta Sign-In Page, where the user authenticates.
- Okta redirects the browser back to the specified redirect URI, along with access and ID tokens as a hash fragment in the URI.
- Your application extracts the tokens from the URI.
- Your application can now use these tokens to call the resource server (for example an API) on behalf of the user.

For more information on the Implicit flow, see our [OAuth 2.0 overview](/docs/concepts/auth-overview/#implicit-flow).

<NextSectionLink/>

Commit message:

Standardizes support instructions for guides (#1287)
* Standardizes support instructions for guides

For all guides in the library:
* Moved (or added) instructions on how to get support through the developer forum from the last page of the guide to the first page
* Shortened the text pointing developers to get a free developer org, as it was wrapping weirdly in all the guides.
* Cleaned up a few places where there were extra spaces or new lines at the ends of files.

* Restores the interrogative

Don't have one?

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/implement-implicit/overview/index.md, after:

---
title: Overview
---

If you are building a Single-Page Application (SPA) that runs in older browsers that don't support Web Crypto for PKCE, then the Implicit flow is the recommended method for controlling access between your SPA and a resource server. The Implicit flow is intended for applications where the confidentiality of the client secret can't be guaranteed. In this flow, the client doesn't make a request to the `/token` endpoint, but instead receives the access token directly from the `/authorize` endpoint.  The client must be capable of interacting with the resource owner's user agent and capable of receiving incoming requests (through redirection) from the authorization server.

> **Note:** For SPAs running in modern browsers that support Web Crypto for PKCE, we recommend using the [Authorization Code Flow with PKCE](/docs/guides/implement-auth-code-pkce/) instead for maximum security.

At a high level, the Implicit flow has the following steps:

- Your application directs the browser to the Okta Sign-In Page, where the user authenticates.
- Okta redirects the browser back to the specified redirect URI, along with access and ID tokens as a hash fragment in the URI.
- Your application extracts the tokens from the URI.
- Your application can now use these tokens to call the resource server (for example an API) on behalf of the user.

For more information on the Implicit flow, see our [OAuth 2.0 overview](/docs/concepts/auth-overview/#implicit-flow).

## Support

If you need help or have an issue, post a question in our [Developer Forum](https://devforum.okta.com).

<NextSectionLink/>
