packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/implement-grant-type/main/implicit/flow-diagram.md, before:

![Implicit flow width:](/img/authorization/oauth-implicit-grant-flow.png "Sequence diagram that displays the back and forth between the resource owner, authorization server, and resource server for Implicit grant flow")

<!-- Source for image. Generated using http://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/uml/

skinparam monochrome true
actor "Resource Owner (User)" as user
participant "Client" as client
participant "Authorization Server (Okta)" as okta
participant "Resource Server (Your App)" as app

autonumber "<b>#."
client -> okta: Access token request to /authorize
okta -> user: 302 redirect to authentication prompt
user -> okta: Authentication & consent
okta -> client: Access token response
client -> app: Request with access token
app -> client: Response

-->
The Implicit flow contains the following interactions:

1. The User makes an access request to your app (the Client). Your app needs to handle this request and redirect the authentication request to the Auth Server (Okta). See [Redirect to Auth Server Code](#redirect-to-auth-server-for-code) to implement this request. Before implementing this request, you need to [Set up your app](#set-up-your-app) to obtain an Okta Client ID, that will 
2. In Okta, you need to register your app so that Okta can accept the authentication request. See Set up your app to register and configure your app with Okta. After registration, Okta provides you with a Client ID that you can embed in your app to make a trusted request to Okta.
3. Okta authenticates the user credentials. To do this, Okta needs the user profile data. 
See Add app users. Alternatively, you can enable Self-service registration to allow users to register their membership with the app. Okta also needs to know where to redirect the ID token once authentication is successful. See Sign-in redirect URI parameter in Set up your app.
4. Your app needs to implement the callback route to accept the redirect request from (3). See Define a callback route. This callback route path must match the Sign-in redirect URI configured in (3).

1. Your application directs the browser to the Okta Sign-In Page, where the user authenticates.
1. Okta redirects the browser back to the specified redirect URI, along with access and ID tokens as a hash fragment in the URI.
1. Your application extracts the tokens from the URI.
1. Your application can now use these tokens to call the resource server (for example an API) on behalf of the user.

Commit message:

continue to reorganize implicit, auth code, auth code with pkce content

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/implement-grant-type/main/implicit/flow-diagram.md, after:

![Implicit flow](/img/authorization/oauth-implicit-grant-flow.png "Sequence diagram that displays the back and forth between the resource owner, authorization server, and resource server for Implicit grant flow")

<!-- Source for image. Generated using http://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/uml/

skinparam monochrome true
actor "Resource Owner (User)" as user
participant "Client" as client
participant "Authorization Server (Okta)" as okta
participant "Resource Server" as app

autonumber "<b>#."
client -> okta: Access token request to /authorize
okta -> user: 302 redirect to authentication prompt
user -> okta: Authentication & consent
okta -> client: Access token response
client -> app: Request with access token
app -> client: Response

-->
The Implicit flow contains the following interactions:

1. The Client sends a request to the Auth Server (Okta) for an access token.<br>
You need to register your app so that Okta can accept the authorization request. See [Set up your app](#set-up-your-app) to register and configure your app with Okta. After registration, your app can initiate this authorization request to Okta. See [Redirect to Auth Server](#redirect-to-auth-server) to implement this request.

2. The Auth Server redirects the User browser to an authentication prompt (the Okta Sign-In Page), where the user authenticates.

3. User authenticates with the Auth Server (Okta) and provides consent. <br>
In order for Okta to authenticate the user credentials, Okta needs user profile data.
See [Add a user using Console](/docs/guides/quickstart/cli/add-user/). Alternatively, you can [Set up Self-service registration](/docs/guides/set-up-self-service-registration/) to allow users to register their membership with the app.

4. Okta redirects the browser back to the specified redirect URI, along with access and ID tokens as a hash fragment in the URI.<br>
The redirect URI is specified when your app was registered in Okta.
5. Your application extracts the tokens from the URI and can now use these tokens to call the resource server (for example an API) on behalf of the user. See [Access token response](#access-token-response).
