packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/implement-grant-type/main/index.md, before:

---
title: Implement Authorization by grant type
excerpt: How to implement Authorization flows by grant type with Okta
layout: Guides
---

This document guides you through implementing OAuth 2.0 authorization flow for your app by grant types with Okta.

Select the authorization grant-type flow to implement: <StackSelector />

### Overview

<StackSnippet snippet="overview" />

### Grant-type flow

<StackSnippet snippet="flow-diagram"/>

### Flow usage

<StackSnippet snippet="use-flow" />

### Set up your app

<StackSnippet snippet="setup-app" />

- Stack selector for App Wizard settings

| Parameter | Description        |
| --------- | ----------- |
| Sign-on method  | xxx |
| App type  | xxx |
| Grant type | xxx |
| Sign-in redirect URIs | xxx |


### Install an Okta SDK

- stack selector for which SDK you can use for the grant type
- this could be links to other actions from the Sign-in guides

### Redirect to Auth Server for code

- stack selector for info on how to implement redirect to auth server for code
- this could be links to other actions from the Sign-in guides

### Exchange authorization code for token

- stack selector for info on how to implement redirect to auth server for token, if required
- this could be links to the Sign-in guides

### Scopes

- stack selector for scope instructions, if required

### Get access token

- stack selector for get access token instructions, if required

### Next steps

Now that you have implemented Authorization in your app, you can add features such as

* Self-service enrollment
* MFA
* Authentication recovery
* Progressive profiling

> **Note:** If you need help or have an issue, post a question on the [Okta Developer Forum](https://devforum.okta.com).

Commit message:

continue to reorganize implicit, auth code, auth code with pkce content

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/implement-grant-type/main/index.md, after:

---
title: Implement Authorization by grant type
excerpt: How to implement Authorization flows by grant type with Okta
layout: Guides
---

This document guides you through implementing OAuth 2.0 authorization flow for your app by grant types with Okta.

Select the authorization grant-type flow to implement: <StackSelector />

### Overview

<StackSnippet snippet="overview" />

### Grant-type flow

<StackSnippet snippet="flow-diagram"/>

### Set up your app

Before you can implement authorization, you need to register your app in Okta by creating an Okta app integration from the Admin Console.

<StackSnippet snippet="setup-app" />

Save the Okta Client ID (`client_id`) value generated from the created app integration to implement your authorization flow.

### Install an Okta SDK

Okta provides an array of language and framework SDKs to speed up implementing authorization with Okta. See [Languages & SDKs overivew](/code/) for a list of SDKs you can download to start using with your app.

<StackSnippet snippet="install-sdk" />

<!-- "Redirect to Auth Server" , "Flow usage" , "Exchange authorization code for token", "Scopes", "Get access token" grant-specific content -->

<StackSnippet snippet="use-flow" />

<!-- ### Exchange authorization code for token -->

<!-- ### Get access token -->

### Next steps

<StackSnippet snippet="nextsteps" />

Now that you have implemented Authorization in your app, you can add features such as

* [Self-service enrollment](/docs/guides/set-up-self-service-registration/)
* MFA
* Brand customization ([custom domain](/docs/guides/custom-url-domain/), [custom SMS messages](/docs/guides/sms-customization/), [custom emails](/docs/guides/email-customization/))
* Authentication recovery
* Progressive profiling

> **Note:** If you need help or have an issue, post a question on the [Okta Developer Forum](https://devforum.okta.com).
