packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/custom-hosted-signin/overview/index.md, before:

---
title: Overview
---
Okta hosts a sign-in page for your applications that appears when your applications redirect to Okta to sign users in. This page can be tailored to fit your brand or your application's look and feel, so that your user experience is consistent and seamless. You can customize the Okta-hosted sign-in page using easy controls or an embedded HTML editor that are provided on the **Custom Signin** tab of the **Customization** page.

By using this feature along with customizing the [domain](/docs/guides/custom-url-domain/) and [error pages](/docs/guides/custom-error-pages/), you can use [Okta-hosted flows](/docs/concepts/okta-hosted-flows/) and keep a seamless user experience with your application. 

> **Note:** The Okta-hosted sign-in page uses the Okta Sign-In Widget component. This guide is about customizing the sign-in page itself, for example, adding custom HTML and CSS. See [Customize and style the Sign-In Widget](https://developer.okta.com/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/) for more information on customizations for the Sign-In Widget itself.

## Common questions
**What can I customize on the sign-in page?**
You can add any HTML, CSS, or JavaScript to the page that you want.

**Can I customize the sign-in page per-application or with multiple brands?**
Yes. See the <GuideLink link="../customization-examples/#per-application-customization">Per-application customization</GuideLink> section later in this guide.

## Before you begin
Before you can get started customizing your hosted sign-in page, you must have already customized your [Okta URL domain](/docs/guides/custom-url-domain/).

<NextSectionLink/>

Commit message:

Standardizes support instructions for guides
For all guides in the library:
* Moved (or added) instructions on how to get support through the developer forum from the last page of the guide to the first page
* Shortened the text pointing developers to get a free developer org, as it was wrapping weirdly in all the guides.
* Cleaned up a few places where there were extra spaces or new lines at the ends of files.

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/custom-hosted-signin/overview/index.md, after:

---
title: Overview
---
Okta hosts a sign-in page for your applications that appears when your applications redirect to Okta to sign users in. This page can be tailored to fit your brand or your application's look and feel, so that your user experience is consistent and seamless. You can customize the Okta-hosted sign-in page using easy controls or an embedded HTML editor that are provided on the **Custom Signin** tab of the **Customization** page.

By using this feature along with customizing the [domain](/docs/guides/custom-url-domain/) and [error pages](/docs/guides/custom-error-pages/), you can use [Okta-hosted flows](/docs/concepts/okta-hosted-flows/) and keep a seamless user experience with your application. 

> **Note:** The Okta-hosted sign-in page uses the Okta Sign-In Widget component. This guide is about customizing the sign-in page itself, for example, adding custom HTML and CSS. See [Customize and style the Sign-In Widget](https://developer.okta.com/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/) for more information on customizations for the Sign-In Widget itself.

## Common questions
**What can I customize on the sign-in page?**
You can add any HTML, CSS, or JavaScript to the page that you want.

**Can I customize the sign-in page per-application or with multiple brands?**
Yes. See the <GuideLink link="../customization-examples/#per-application-customization">Per-application customization</GuideLink> section later in this guide.

## Before you begin
Before you can get started customizing your hosted sign-in page, you must have already customized your [Okta URL domain](/docs/guides/custom-url-domain/).

## Support

If you need help or have an issue, post a question in our [Developer Forum](https://devforum.okta.com).

<NextSectionLink/>
