packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/custom-error-pages/overview/index.md, before:

---
title: Overview
---

When using an Okta-hosted flow, you can create a unique sign-in experience by providing a customized [Okta URL domain](/docs/guides/custom-url-domain/) and creating an [Okta-hosted sign-in page](/docs/guides/custom-hosted-signin/) that matches your application's look and feel.

However, if an error occurs during sign-in, Okta may need to display an error page to the user. To provide a seamless user experience, you can also customize the error page by using the embedded HTML editor provided on the **Custom Error Pages** tab of the **Customization** page.

## Common questions

**In what situations does Okta serve error pages to the user?**

The error page appears when a critical error occurs or an application is misconfigured. See [Okta-hosted flows](/docs/concepts/okta-hosted-flows/) for more information on Okta-hosted functionality.

**What can I customize on the error page?**

You can add any HTML, CSS, or JavaScript you want to the page.

## Before you begin

Before you can get started customizing error pages, you must have already [customized your Okta URL domain](/docs/guides/custom-url-domain/).

A custom error page appears only when an application connects to Okta using your custom domain. Otherwise, the default Okta error page appears.

<NextSectionLink/>

Commit message:

Standardizes support instructions for guides (#1287)
* Standardizes support instructions for guides

For all guides in the library:
* Moved (or added) instructions on how to get support through the developer forum from the last page of the guide to the first page
* Shortened the text pointing developers to get a free developer org, as it was wrapping weirdly in all the guides.
* Cleaned up a few places where there were extra spaces or new lines at the ends of files.

* Restores the interrogative

Don't have one?

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/custom-error-pages/overview/index.md, after:

---
title: Overview
---

When using an Okta-hosted flow, you can create a unique sign-in experience by providing a customized [Okta URL domain](/docs/guides/custom-url-domain/) and creating an [Okta-hosted sign-in page](/docs/guides/custom-hosted-signin/) that matches your application's look and feel.

However, if an error occurs during sign-in, Okta may need to display an error page to the user. To provide a seamless user experience, you can also customize the error page by using the embedded HTML editor provided on the **Custom Error Pages** tab of the **Customization** page.

## Common questions

**In what situations does Okta serve error pages to the user?**

The error page appears when a critical error occurs or an application is misconfigured. See [Okta-hosted flows](/docs/concepts/okta-hosted-flows/) for more information on Okta-hosted functionality.

**What can I customize on the error page?**

You can add any HTML, CSS, or JavaScript you want to the page.

## Before you begin

Before you can get started customizing error pages, you must have already [customized your Okta URL domain](/docs/guides/custom-url-domain/).

A custom error page appears only when an application connects to Okta using your custom domain. Otherwise, the default Okta error page appears.

## Support

If you need help or have an issue, post a question in our [Developer Forum](https://devforum.okta.com).

<NextSectionLink/>
