To retain authentication control of your Angular single-page app (SPA) without redirection to Okta, implement the [embedded](/docs/concepts/redirect-vs-embedded/#embedded-authentication) model using the Okta Auth JS SDK. This library provides you with common, reusable OAuth 2.0 methods and properties to handle the interaction between the Okta authorization server and your client app. This integration allows you to customize your app's sign-in experience with minimal use of low-level [Okta authentication](/docs/reference/api/authn/) and [Okta OpenID Connect & OAuth 2.0](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/openapi/okta-oauth/guides/overview/) APIs.

The authentication interaction between the Okta authorization server and your client app follows the [Interaction Code](/docs/concepts/interaction-code/) flow. This Okta flow is an extension of the [OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect](/docs/concepts/oauth-openid/) standard. This flow allows you to customize the user authentication experience for your app without redirecting to an authentication component outside of your app. See [Implement authorization by Interaction Code grant type](/docs/guides/implement-grant-type/interactioncode/main/) for more information on the Interaction Code flow and the necessary interactions between the Okta authorization server and your app.

> **Note**: You can use the [Okta Sign-In Widget](/docs/guides/embedded-siw) to embed authentication if you don't need full customization capabilities for your sign-in user experience. The Sign-In Widget handles the Interaction Code flow in authentication use cases offered by Okta. See [Sign in to your SPA with the embedded Okta Sign-In Widget](/docs/guides/sign-in-to-spa-embedded-widget/react/main/).
