Today an authorization server relies on [authentication policies](/docs/reference/api/policy/#authentication-policy) to authenticate the user. After the user is authenticated, the authorization server evaluates the scopes and the grant types defined for the application, and then issues the tokens. Although this approach works in many situations, there are several circumstances where more is needed. Resource servers (your protected APIs) can require different authentication strengths or elapsed time frames for different use cases. For example, an eCommerce application requires different authentication strengths depending on whether the item being purchased exceeds a certain threshold. Another example is an application that requires a higher level of assurance before making changes to sensitive information.

Okta has created predefined `acr_values` that are described in the [Predefined parameter values](#predefined-parameter-values) section. You can include one of these values, based on your use case, in the client authorization request to request a different authentication assurance. The authorization server returns an access token and/or an ID token that contains the `acr` claim. This claim conveys information about the level of assurance that the user verified at the time of authentication. The resource server can then validate these parameters to ensure that the user verified the required level of assurance.

> **Note:** You can specify a `max_age` parameter value to require an elapsed time frame. Additionally, if you want to ignore the existing session and reauthenticate the user each time, pass `max_age=0` in the request. For Classic Engine, pass `max_age=1`. See the [Request parameters table](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#request-parameters) for the `/authorize` endpoint for more information on `max_age`.
