In the **General Settings** section:

* **Name** &mdash; enter a name for the Identity Provider configuration.
* **Client ID** &mdash; paste the Services ID that you obtained from Apple when you configured the Identity Provider in the <GuideLink link="../create-an-app-at-idp">previous section</GuideLink>. The Services ID identifies the particular instance of your app and is used as the OAuth `client_id`.
* **Client Secret Signing Key** &mdash; click **Browse files** and locate the key file (.p8 format) that you downloaded from Apple when you created the private key for client authentcation in the <GuideLink link="../create-an-app-at-idp">previous section</GuideLink>.
* **Key ID** &mdash; enter the Key ID that you obtained from Apple when you created the private key for client authentication in the <GuideLink link="../create-an-app-at-idp">previous section</GuideLink>. The Key ID represents the private key generated by Apple.
* **Team ID** &mdash; enter your Apple Team ID. This value must be the Team ID from your Apple developer account. You can find this ID in the upper-right corner of your Apple developer dashboard just below your account name.
* **Scopes** &mdash; leave the defaults. These scopes are included when Okta makes an OpenID Connect request to Apple. See the [scope page](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/sign_in_with_apple/clientconfigi/3230955-scope) at Apple for more information on their required scopes.

    By default, Okta requires the `email` attribute for a user. The `email` scope is required to create and link the user to Okta's Universal Directory. For Just In Time (JIT) provisioning, Okta also requires the `firstName` and `lastName` attributes for a user. Include the `name` scope if the Identity Provider needs to support JIT.

> **Note:** For more information about these settings as well as the **Advanced Settings**, see [Social Identity Provider Settings](/docs/reference/social-settings/).