packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/add-an-external-idp/create-an-app-at-idp/azure/appatidp.md, before:

1. Create an Azure AD app using these [instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app).

2. Skip the **Redirect URI** section for now. We come back to it later.

3. Copy the Application ID value so that you can add it to the Okta configuration in the <GuideLink link="../configure-idp-in-okta">next section</GuideLink>.

4. Under **Certificates & secrets**, click **New client secret** to generate a client secret for your app. Copy the value so that you can add it to the Okta configuration in the next section. This is the secret that corresponds to your Application ID.

    > **Note:** There may be additional settings for the app that you can configure. The steps in this guide address the quickest route to setting up Azure AD as an Identity Provider with Okta. See the Azure AD documentation for more information on additional configuration settings.

For use in the <GuideLink link="../configure-idp-in-okta">next section</GuideLink>, do the following:

1. On the app **Overview** page, click **Endpoints**.

2. In the panel that appears, copy the **OpenID Connect metadata document URL** and then paste that URL into a browser window to obtain the following endpoints:

    * Issuer
    * Authorization
    * Token
    * JWKS
    >**Note:** The userinfo endpoint is optional.

3. Paste the endpoints into a text editor for use in the next section.

Commit message:

new apple as idp doc (#1229)
* initial edits

* updates

* more edits

* june 1 edits

* config at apple

* more content

* tweaking apple config section

* apple IdP first draft

* first draft

* a few edits

* api ref content

* review comments

* generalize domain URLs

* &#8212 fix

* removing redirect section and adding redirect content to create an app at the Identity Provider section

* venkat review

* link to apple scopes per zoe

* one more tweak to scope link text

* yu review

* more yu review

* social login updates

* Revert "api ref content"

This reverts commit a6eea2194a0ad91497fc5ce336c7ed8d27fc9010.

* Apple IdP API

Resolves: OKTA-309869

* review comments

* feedback

* adding postman link updates to the api reference doc and the postman collections page

* removing well known configuration urls in openid connect section per venkat v

Co-authored-by: Yu Liu <yu.liu@okta.com>

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/add-an-external-idp/create-an-app-at-idp/azure/appatidp.md, after:

1. Create an Azure AD app using these [instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app).

2. In the **Redirect URI** section of the page, paste the Okta redirect URI. The redirect URI sent in the authorize request from the client needs to match the redirect URI in the Identity Provider (IdP). This is the URL where the IdP returns the authentication response (the access token and the ID token). It needs to be a secure domain that you own. This URL has the same structure for most Identity Providers in Okta and is constructed using your Okta subdomain and then the callback endpoint.

    For example, if your Okta subdomain is called `company`, then the URL would be: `https://company.okta.com/oauth2/v1/authorize/callback`. If you have configured a custom domain in your Okta Org, use that value to construct your redirect URI, such as `https://login.company.com/oauth2/v1/authorize/callback`.

3. Copy the Application ID value so that you can add it to the Okta configuration in the <GuideLink link="../configure-idp-in-okta">next section</GuideLink>.

4. Under **Certificates & secrets**, click **New client secret** to generate a client secret for your app. Copy the value so that you can add it to the Okta configuration in the next section. This is the secret that corresponds to your Application ID.

    > **Note:** There may be additional settings for the app that you can configure. The steps in this guide address the quickest route to setting up Azure AD as an Identity Provider with Okta. See the Azure AD documentation for more information on additional configuration settings.

For use in the <GuideLink link="../configure-idp-in-okta">next section</GuideLink>, do the following:

1. On the app **Overview** page, click **Endpoints**.

2. In the panel that appears, copy the **OpenID Connect metadata document URL** and then paste that URL into a browser window to obtain the following endpoints:

    * Issuer
    * Authorization
    * Token
    * JWKS

    > **Note:** The userinfo endpoint is optional.

3. Paste the endpoints into a text editor for use in the next section.
