packages/@okta/vuepress-site/code/vue/index.md, before:

---
title: Add User Authentication to Your Vue.js App
language: Vue
integration: front-end
icon: code-vue
meta:
  - name: description
    content: Add user authentication to your Vue app by using our guide and the Okta Vue SDK.
---

New to Okta? Our how to guide will walk you through adding user authentication to your Vue.js app in minutes.

<ul class='language-ctas'>
	<li>
		<a href='https://developer.okta.com/signup/' class='Button--red' data-proofer-ignore>
			<span>Create Free Account</span>
		</a>
	</li>
	<li>
		<a href='/docs/guides/sign-into-spa/vue/before-you-begin/' class='Button--blue' data-proofer-ignore>
			<span>How To Guide</span>
		</a>
	</li>
</ul>

<a href='https://github.com/okta/samples-js-vue'>
	<span class='fa fa-github'></span> <span>Vue.js Sample App</span>
</a>

## Okta Vue SDK

The Okta Vue SDK is a wrapper around the Okta Auth SDK for communicating with OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect (OIDC) providers.


<a href='https://www.npmjs.com/package/@okta/okta-vue' class="language-reference">
	<span class='icon download-16'></span>
	<span>okta-vue on npm</span>
</a>


<a href='https://github.com/okta/okta-vue'>
	<span class='fa fa-github'></span> <span>Vue.js SDK Source</span>
</a>

## Recommended Guides

- [Implementing the PKCE Flow](/docs/guides/implement-auth-code-pkce/)
- [Social Login](/docs/concepts/social-login/)
- [Validate access tokens](/docs/guides/validate-access-tokens)
- [Validate ID tokens](/docs/guides/validate-id-tokens)

## Related Blog Posts


- [The Lazy Developer's Guide to Authentication with Vue.js](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2017/09/14/lazy-developers-guide-to-auth-with-vue)
- [Tutorial: Build a Basic CRUD App with Symfony 4 and Vue](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2018/06/14/php-crud-app-symfony-vue)
- [Deploy Your Secure Vue.js App to AWS](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2018/07/03/deploy-vue-app-aws)
- [Build a Basic CRUD App with Vue.js and Node](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2018/02/15/build-crud-app-vuejs-node)
- [Build a Secure To-Do App with Vue, ASP.NET Core, and Okta](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2018/01/31/build-secure-todo-app-vuejs-aspnetcore)
- [Build a Cryptocurrency Comparison Site with Vue.js](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2017/09/06/build-a-cryptocurrency-comparison-site-with-vuejs)
- [The Ultimate Guide to Progressive Web Applications](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2017/07/20/the-ultimate-guide-to-progressive-web-applications)

Commit message:

[Vue] Add Auth JS and Sign-In Widget Guides

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/code/vue/index.md, after:

---
title: Add User Authentication to Your Vue.js App
language: Vue
integration: front-end
icon: code-vue
meta:
  - name: description
    content: Our guide helps you to add user authentication to your Vue app, integrate with Vue Router, and suggests related content.
---

New to Okta? Our how to guide will walk you through adding user authentication to your Vue.js app in minutes.

<ul class='language-ctas'>
	<li>
		<a href='https://developer.okta.com/signup/' class='Button--red' data-proofer-ignore>
			<span>Create Free Account</span>
		</a>
	</li>
	<li>
		<a href='/docs/guides/sign-into-spa/vue/before-you-begin/' class='Button--blue' data-proofer-ignore>
			<span>How To Guide</span>
		</a>
	</li>
</ul>

<a href='https://github.com/okta/samples-js-vue'>
	<span class='fa fa-github'></span> <span>Vue.js Sample App</span>
</a>

## Okta Vue SDK

The Okta Vue SDK makes it easy to integrate Vue Router with Okta's OpenID Connect API to authenticate your users.

<a href='https://www.npmjs.com/package/@okta/okta-vue' class="language-reference">
	<span class='icon download-16'></span>
	<span>okta-vue on npm</span>
</a>

<a href='https://github.com/okta/okta-vue'>
	<span class='fa fa-github'></span> <span>Vue.js SDK Source</span>
</a>

## Recommended Guides

- [Okta Vue Overview](/code/react/okta_vue/)
- [Okta Sign-In Widget and Vue](/code/react/okta_vue_sign-in_widget/)
- [Implementing the PKCE Flow](/docs/guides/implement-auth-code-pkce/)
- [Social Login](/docs/concepts/social-login/)
- [Validate access tokens](/docs/guides/validate-access-tokens)
- [Validate ID tokens](/docs/guides/validate-id-tokens)

## Related Blog Posts


- [The Lazy Developer's Guide to Authentication with Vue.js](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2017/09/14/lazy-developers-guide-to-auth-with-vue)
- [Tutorial: Build a Basic CRUD App with Symfony 4 and Vue](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2018/06/14/php-crud-app-symfony-vue)
- [Deploy Your Secure Vue.js App to AWS](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2018/07/03/deploy-vue-app-aws)
- [Build a Basic CRUD App with Vue.js and Node](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2018/02/15/build-crud-app-vuejs-node)
- [Build a Secure To-Do App with Vue, ASP.NET Core, and Okta](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2018/01/31/build-secure-todo-app-vuejs-aspnetcore)
- [Build a Cryptocurrency Comparison Site with Vue.js](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2017/09/06/build-a-cryptocurrency-comparison-site-with-vuejs)
- [The Ultimate Guide to Progressive Web Applications](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2017/07/20/the-ultimate-guide-to-progressive-web-applications)
