packages/@okta/vuepress-site/code/angular/okta_angular_sign-in_widget/index.md, before:

---
title: Okta Sign-In Widget and Angular
language: Angular
excerpt: Integrate Okta with an Angular application using the Sign-In Widget.
icon: code-angular
---

This guide will walk you through integrating authentication into an Angular application with Okta by performing these steps:

1. [Add an OpenID Connect Client in Okta](#add-an-openid-connect-client)
2. [Create an Angular App](#create-an-angular-app)
3. [Install Dependencies](#install-dependencies)
4. [Create Routes](#create-routes)
5. [Connect the Routes](#connect-the-routes)
6. [Start your App](#start-your-app)

## Prerequisites

If you do not already have a  **Developer Edition Account**, you can create one at [https://developer.okta.com/signup/](https://developer.okta.com/signup/).

## Add an OpenID Connect Client

* Sign in to the Okta Developer Dashboard, and select **Create New App**
* Choose **Single Page App (SPA)** as the platform, then populate your new OpenID Connect application with values similar to:

| Setting              | Value                                               |
| -------------------  | --------------------------------------------------- |
| Application Name     | OpenId Connect App (must be unique)                 |
| Login redirect URIs  | `http://localhost:4200/login/callback`              |
| Logout redirect URIs | `http://localhost:4200/login`                       |
| Allowed grant types  | Authorization Code                                  |

> **Note:** It is important to choose the appropriate application type for apps which are public clients. Failing to do so may result in Okta API endpoints attempting to verify an app's client secret, which public clients are not designed to have, hence breaking the sign-in or sign-out flow.

## Create an Angular App

To quickly create an Angular app, we recommend the **Angular CLI**.

```bash
npm install -g @angular/cli
ng new okta-app --routing
```

If you need more information, see [the Angular CLI installation guide](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli#installation).

## Install Dependencies

A simple way to add authentication into an Angular app is using the library [Okta Sign-In Widget](/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/). We can install it via `npm`:

```bash
cd okta-app
npm install @okta/okta-signin-widget
```

To easily interact with the [Okta Sign-In Widget](/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/), we will also need [`@okta/okta-angular`](https://github.com/okta/okta-angular/):

```bash
npm install @okta/okta-angular
```

> If you're using **Angular 6.x**, you'll need to install `rxjs-compat`:

```bash
npm install rxjs-compat
```

## Create Routes

Some routes require authentication in order to render. Defining these protected routes is easy with the `OktaAuthGuard` from `@okta/okta-angular`. Let's take a look at what routes are required for this example, using [Angular Router](https://angular.io/guide/router):

* `/`: A default page to handle basic control of the app.
* `/protected`: A protected route that can only be accessed by an authenticated user.
* `/login`: A custom sign-in page to handle signing users into your app.

### `/`

First, update `src/app/app.component.html` to provide the Login logic:

```html
<!-- src/app/app.component.html -->


<!-- Latest CDN production CSS -->
<link href="https://global.oktacdn.com/okta-signin-widget/-=OKTA_REPLACE_WITH_WIDGET_VERSION=-/css/okta-sign-in.min.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>

<button routerLink="/"> Home </button>
<button *ngIf="!isAuthenticated" routerLink="/login"> Login </button>
<button *ngIf="isAuthenticated" (click)="logout()"> Logout </button>
<button routerLink="/protected"> Protected </button>

<router-outlet></router-outlet>
```

Then, update `src/app/app.component.ts` to handle the `logout()` call:

```typescript
// src/app/app.component.ts
import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';
import { Router } from '@angular/router';
import { OktaAuthService } from '@okta/okta-angular';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
})

export class AppComponent implements OnInit {
  isAuthenticated: boolean;

  constructor(public oktaAuth: OktaAuthService, public router: Router) {
    // Subscribe to authentication state changes
    this.oktaAuth.$authenticationState.subscribe(
      (isAuthenticated: boolean)  => this.isAuthenticated = isAuthenticated
    );
  }

  async ngOnInit() {
    // Get the authentication state for immediate use
    this.isAuthenticated = await this.oktaAuth.isAuthenticated();
  }

  login() {
    this.oktaAuth.signInWithRedirect({
      originalUri: '/profile'
    });
  }

  async logout() {
    // Terminates the session with Okta and removes current tokens.
    await this.oktaAuth.signOut();
    this.router.navigateByUrl('/');
  }
}
```

### `/protected`

This route will only be visible to users with a valid `accessToken` or `idToken`.

Create a new component `src/app/protected.component.ts`:


```typescript
// src/app/protected.component.ts

import { Component } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-secure',
  template: `{{message}}`
})
export class ProtectedComponent {
  message;

  constructor() {
    this.message = 'Protected endpoint!';
  }
}
```

When a user attempts to access a route that is protected by `OktaAuthGuard`, it first checks to see if the user has been authenticated. If `isAuthenticated()` returns `false`, start the login flow.

### `/login`

This route hosts the Sign-In Widget and redirects if the user is already logged in. If the user is coming from a protected page, they'll be redirected back to the page upon login.

Create a new component `src/app/login.component.ts`:

```typescript
// src/app/login.component.ts

import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';
import { Router, NavigationStart} from '@angular/router';

import { OktaAuthService } from '@okta/okta-angular';
import * as OktaSignIn from '@okta/okta-signin-widget';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-secure',
  template: `
    <!-- Container to inject the Sign-In Widget -->
    <div id="okta-signin-container"></div>
  `
})
export class LoginComponent implements OnInit {
  authService;
  widget = new OktaSignIn({
    el: '#okta-signin-container',
    baseUrl: 'https://${yourOktaDomain}',
    authParams: {
      pkce: true
    },
         clientId: '${clientId}',
         redirectUri: 'http://localhost:4200/login/callback'
  });

  constructor(oktaAuth: OktaAuthService, router: Router) {
    this.authService = oktaAuth;

    // Show the widget when prompted, otherwise remove it from the DOM.
    router.events.forEach(event => {
      if (event instanceof NavigationStart) {
        switch(event.url) {
          case '/login':
            break;
          case '/protected':
            break;
          default:
            this.widget.remove();
            break;
        }
      }
    });
  }

  ngOnInit() {
    this.widget.showSignInAndRedirect().catch(err => {
      throw(err);
    });
  }
}
```

### Connect the Routes

The `OktaAuthModule` handles different authentication flows for your application, so it requires your OpenID Connect configuration. By default `okta/okta-angular` redirects to the Okta Sign-In Page when the user is not authenticated. We override this behavior by passing an `onAuthRequired` function to the `OktaAuthGuard`. For more information, see [using a custom login-page](https://github.com/okta/okta-angular#using-a-custom-login-page).

Update `src/app/app.module.ts` to include your project components and routes. Your completed file should look similar to:

```typescript
// app.module.ts

import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { Routes, RouterModule, Router } from '@angular/router';

import {
  OKTA_CONFIG,
  OktaAuthModule,
  OktaCallbackComponent,
  OktaAuthGuard
} from '@okta/okta-angular';

import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
import { ProtectedComponent } from './protected.component';
import { LoginComponent } from './login.component';

const config = {
  issuer: 'https://${yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default',
  redirectUri: window.location.origin + '/login/callback',
  clientId: '{clientId}',
  pkce: true
}

export function onAuthRequired(oktaAuth, injector) {
  const router = injector.get(Router);

  // Redirect the user to your custom login page
  router.navigate(['/login']);
}

const appRoutes: Routes = [
  {
    path: 'login/callback',
    component: OktaCallbackComponent
  },
  {
    path: 'login',
    component: LoginComponent
  },
  {
    path: 'protected',
    component: ProtectedComponent,
    canActivate: [ OktaAuthGuard ],
    data: {
      onAuthRequired
    }
  }
]
@NgModule({
  declarations: [
    AppComponent,
    LoginComponent,
    ProtectedComponent
  ],
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    RouterModule.forRoot(appRoutes),
    OktaAuthModule
  ],
  providers: [
    { provide: OKTA_CONFIG, useValue: config },
  ],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent]
})
export class AppModule { }
```

## Start your App

Finally, start your application by running:

```bash
npm start
```

## Conclusion

You have now successfully authenticated with Okta! Now what? With a user's `id_token`, you have basic claims for the user's identity. You can extend the set of claims by modifying the `scopes` to retrieve custom information about the user. This includes `locale`, `address`, `groups`, and [more](/docs/reference/api/oidc/).

Want to learn how to use the user's `access_token`? Check out our <a href='/docs/guides/sign-into-spa/angular/before-you-begin/' data-proofer-ignore>how to guide</a> to learn about protecting routes on your server, validating the `access_token`, and more!

## Support

Have a question or see a bug? Post your question on the [Okta Developer Forums](https://devforum.okta.com/).

Commit message:

chore: add verbose note on signing in to Developer Dashboard and client ID usage

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/code/angular/okta_angular_sign-in_widget/index.md, after:

---
title: Okta Sign-In Widget and Angular
language: Angular
excerpt: Integrate Okta with an Angular application using the Sign-In Widget.
icon: code-angular
---

This guide will walk you through integrating authentication into an Angular application with Okta by performing these steps:

1. [Add an OpenID Connect Client in Okta](#add-an-openid-connect-client)
2. [Create an Angular App](#create-an-angular-app)
3. [Install Dependencies](#install-dependencies)
4. [Create Routes](#create-routes)
5. [Connect the Routes](#connect-the-routes)
6. [Start your App](#start-your-app)

## Prerequisites

If you do not already have a  **Developer Edition Account**, you can create one at [https://developer.okta.com/signup/](https://developer.okta.com/signup/).

## Add an OpenID Connect Client

* Sign in to the Okta Developer Dashboard, and select **Create New App**. <br/>
You can sign in to the Okta Developer Dashboard through [https://login.okta.com](https://login.okta.com) and clicking `Admin` button on the Okta Dashboard.
* Choose **Single Page App (SPA)** as the platform, then populate your new OpenID Connect application with values similar to:

| Setting              | Value                                               |
| -------------------  | --------------------------------------------------- |
| Application Name     | OpenId Connect App (must be unique)                 |
| Login redirect URIs  | `http://localhost:4200/login/callback`              |
| Logout redirect URIs | `http://localhost:4200/login`                       |
| Allowed grant types  | Authorization Code                                  |
`${clientId}` placeholders further in this tutorial should be replaced by `Client ID` of created application.

> **Note:** It is important to choose the appropriate application type for apps which are public clients. Failing to do so may result in Okta API endpoints attempting to verify an app's client secret, which public clients are not designed to have, hence breaking the sign-in or sign-out flow.

## Create an Angular App

To quickly create an Angular app, we recommend the **Angular CLI**.

```bash
npm install -g @angular/cli
ng new okta-app --routing
```

If you need more information, see [the Angular CLI installation guide](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli#installation).

## Install Dependencies

A simple way to add authentication into an Angular app is using the library [Okta Sign-In Widget](/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/). We can install it via `npm`:

```bash
cd okta-app
npm install @okta/okta-signin-widget
```

To easily interact with the [Okta Sign-In Widget](/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/), we will also need [`@okta/okta-angular`](https://github.com/okta/okta-angular/):

```bash
npm install @okta/okta-angular
```

> If you're using **Angular 6.x**, you'll need to install `rxjs-compat`:

```bash
npm install rxjs-compat
```

## Create Routes

Some routes require authentication in order to render. Defining these protected routes is easy with the `OktaAuthGuard` from `@okta/okta-angular`. Let's take a look at what routes are required for this example, using [Angular Router](https://angular.io/guide/router):

* `/`: A default page to handle basic control of the app.
* `/protected`: A protected route that can only be accessed by an authenticated user.
* `/login`: A custom sign-in page to handle signing users into your app.

### `/`

First, update `src/app/app.component.html` to provide the Login logic:

```html
<!-- src/app/app.component.html -->


<!-- Latest CDN production CSS -->
<link href="https://global.oktacdn.com/okta-signin-widget/-=OKTA_REPLACE_WITH_WIDGET_VERSION=-/css/okta-sign-in.min.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>

<button routerLink="/"> Home </button>
<button *ngIf="!isAuthenticated" routerLink="/login"> Login </button>
<button *ngIf="isAuthenticated" (click)="logout()"> Logout </button>
<button routerLink="/protected"> Protected </button>

<router-outlet></router-outlet>
```

Then, update `src/app/app.component.ts` to handle the `logout()` call:

```typescript
// src/app/app.component.ts
import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';
import { Router } from '@angular/router';
import { OktaAuthService } from '@okta/okta-angular';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
})

export class AppComponent implements OnInit {
  isAuthenticated: boolean;

  constructor(public oktaAuth: OktaAuthService, public router: Router) {
    // Subscribe to authentication state changes
    this.oktaAuth.$authenticationState.subscribe(
      (isAuthenticated: boolean)  => this.isAuthenticated = isAuthenticated
    );
  }

  async ngOnInit() {
    // Get the authentication state for immediate use
    this.isAuthenticated = await this.oktaAuth.isAuthenticated();
  }

  login() {
    this.oktaAuth.signInWithRedirect({
      originalUri: '/profile'
    });
  }

  async logout() {
    // Terminates the session with Okta and removes current tokens.
    await this.oktaAuth.signOut();
    this.router.navigateByUrl('/');
  }
}
```

### `/protected`

This route will only be visible to users with a valid `accessToken` or `idToken`.

Create a new component `src/app/protected.component.ts`:


```typescript
// src/app/protected.component.ts

import { Component } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-secure',
  template: `{{message}}`
})
export class ProtectedComponent {
  message;

  constructor() {
    this.message = 'Protected endpoint!';
  }
}
```

When a user attempts to access a route that is protected by `OktaAuthGuard`, it first checks to see if the user has been authenticated. If `isAuthenticated()` returns `false`, start the login flow.

### `/login`

This route hosts the Sign-In Widget and redirects if the user is already logged in. If the user is coming from a protected page, they'll be redirected back to the page upon login.

Create a new component `src/app/login.component.ts`:

```typescript
// src/app/login.component.ts

import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';
import { Router, NavigationStart} from '@angular/router';

import { OktaAuthService } from '@okta/okta-angular';
import * as OktaSignIn from '@okta/okta-signin-widget';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-secure',
  template: `
    <!-- Container to inject the Sign-In Widget -->
    <div id="okta-signin-container"></div>
  `
})
export class LoginComponent implements OnInit {
  authService;
  widget = new OktaSignIn({
    el: '#okta-signin-container',
    baseUrl: 'https://${yourOktaDomain}',
    authParams: {
      pkce: true
    },
         clientId: '${clientId}',
         redirectUri: 'http://localhost:4200/login/callback'
  });

  constructor(oktaAuth: OktaAuthService, router: Router) {
    this.authService = oktaAuth;

    // Show the widget when prompted, otherwise remove it from the DOM.
    router.events.forEach(event => {
      if (event instanceof NavigationStart) {
        switch(event.url) {
          case '/login':
            break;
          case '/protected':
            break;
          default:
            this.widget.remove();
            break;
        }
      }
    });
  }

  ngOnInit() {
    this.widget.showSignInAndRedirect().catch(err => {
      throw(err);
    });
  }
}
```

### Connect the Routes

The `OktaAuthModule` handles different authentication flows for your application, so it requires your OpenID Connect configuration. By default `okta/okta-angular` redirects to the Okta Sign-In Page when the user is not authenticated. We override this behavior by passing an `onAuthRequired` function to the `OktaAuthGuard`. For more information, see [using a custom login-page](https://github.com/okta/okta-angular#using-a-custom-login-page).

Update `src/app/app.module.ts` to include your project components and routes. Your completed file should look similar to:

```typescript
// app.module.ts

import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { Routes, RouterModule, Router } from '@angular/router';

import {
  OKTA_CONFIG,
  OktaAuthModule,
  OktaCallbackComponent,
  OktaAuthGuard
} from '@okta/okta-angular';

import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
import { ProtectedComponent } from './protected.component';
import { LoginComponent } from './login.component';

const config = {
  issuer: 'https://${yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default',
  redirectUri: window.location.origin + '/login/callback',
  clientId: '{clientId}',
  pkce: true
}

export function onAuthRequired(oktaAuth, injector) {
  const router = injector.get(Router);

  // Redirect the user to your custom login page
  router.navigate(['/login']);
}

const appRoutes: Routes = [
  {
    path: 'login/callback',
    component: OktaCallbackComponent
  },
  {
    path: 'login',
    component: LoginComponent
  },
  {
    path: 'protected',
    component: ProtectedComponent,
    canActivate: [ OktaAuthGuard ],
    data: {
      onAuthRequired
    }
  }
]
@NgModule({
  declarations: [
    AppComponent,
    LoginComponent,
    ProtectedComponent
  ],
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    RouterModule.forRoot(appRoutes),
    OktaAuthModule
  ],
  providers: [
    { provide: OKTA_CONFIG, useValue: config },
  ],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent]
})
export class AppModule { }
```

## Start your App

Finally, start your application by running:

```bash
npm start
```

## Conclusion

You have now successfully authenticated with Okta! Now what? With a user's `id_token`, you have basic claims for the user's identity. You can extend the set of claims by modifying the `scopes` to retrieve custom information about the user. This includes `locale`, `address`, `groups`, and [more](/docs/reference/api/oidc/).

Want to learn how to use the user's `access_token`? Check out our <a href='/docs/guides/sign-into-spa/angular/before-you-begin/' data-proofer-ignore>how to guide</a> to learn about protecting routes on your server, validating the `access_token`, and more!

## Support

Have a question or see a bug? Post your question on the [Okta Developer Forums](https://devforum.okta.com/).
