packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/validate-access-tokens/overview/index.md, before:

---
title: Overview
---

If you are building a modern app or API, you likely want to know if your end user is authenticated. This is important to give context or to protect APIs from unauthenticated users. You can use Okta to authenticate your end users and issue them signed access and ID tokens, which your application can then use. It is important that your application only uses the access token to grant access, and not the ID token. For more information about this, see the [Access Tokens vs ID Tokens](#access-tokens-vs-id-tokens) section below.

Once the signed tokens are issued to the end users they can be passed to your application, which must validate them. There are two ways to verify a token: locally, or remotely with Okta. The token has been signed with a JSON Web Key (JWK) using the RS256 algorithm. To validate the signature, Okta provides your application with a public key that can be used.

We will now cover the terms used in this document, and an explanation of why you should use access tokens instead of ID tokens for this use case.

- If you'd like to jump straight to the local validation steps: [What to Check When Validating an Access Token](#what-to-check-when-validating-an-access-token)
- If you'd like to see how to validate a token directly with Okta: [Validating A Token Remotely With Okta](#validating-a-token-remotely-with-okta)
- If you want to see specifically how to accomplish this in your language of choice: [Okta Libraries to Help You Verify Access Tokens](#okta-libraries-to-help-you-verify-access-tokens)

A high-level overview of OAuth 2.0 can be found [here](/docs/concepts/auth-overview/#oauth-2-0).

The access tokens are in [JSON Web Token (JWT)](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7519) format. They are signed using asynmmetrical [JSON Web Keys (JWK)](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7517).

More information about Okta's access tokens can be found in the [OIDC & OAuth 2.0 Reference](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#access-token).

## Access Tokens vs ID Tokens

As mentioned above, it is important that the resource server (your server-side application) accept only the access token from a client. This is because access tokens are intended for authorizing access to a resource.

ID Tokens, on the other hand, are intended for authentication. They provide information about the resource owner, to allow you verify that they are who they say they are. Authentication is the concern of the clients. Because of this, when a client makes an authentication request, the ID Token that is returned contains the `client_id` in the ID Token's `aud` claim.

## What to Check When Validating an Access Token

The high-level overview of validating an access token looks like this:

- Retrieve and parse your Okta JSON Web Keys (JWK), which should be checked periodically and cached by your application.
- Decode the access token, which is in JSON Web Token format
- Verify the signature used to sign the access token
- Verify the claims found inside the access token

### Retrieve The JSON Web Keys

The JSON Web Keys (JWK) need to be retrieved from your [Okta Authorization Server](/docs/guides/customize-authz-server/), though your application should have them cached. Specifically, your Authorization Server's Metadata endpoint contains the `jwks_uri`, which you can use to get the JWK.

> For more information about retrieving this metadata, see [Retrieve Authorization Server Metadata](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#well-knownoauth-authorization-server).

### Decoding and Validating the Access Token

You will have to decode the access token, which is in JWT format.  This involves the following steps:
- Verify the Token Signature
- Verify the Claims

Okta provides libraries to perform these steps for you: 
<StackSelector snippet="accesstoken"/>

Don't see the language you're working in? Get in touch: <developers@okta.com>

## Validating A Token Remotely With Okta

Alternatively, you can also validate an access or refresh Token using the Token Introspection endpoint: [Introspection Request](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#introspect). This endpoint takes your token as a URL query parameter and returns back a simple JSON response with a boolean `active` property.

This incurs a network request which is slower to do verification, but can be used when you want to guarantee that the access token hasn't been revoked.

Commit message:

Standardizes support instructions for guides (#1287)
* Standardizes support instructions for guides

For all guides in the library:
* Moved (or added) instructions on how to get support through the developer forum from the last page of the guide to the first page
* Shortened the text pointing developers to get a free developer org, as it was wrapping weirdly in all the guides.
* Cleaned up a few places where there were extra spaces or new lines at the ends of files.

* Restores the interrogative

Don't have one?

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/validate-access-tokens/overview/index.md, after:

---
title: Overview
---

If you are building a modern app or API, you likely want to know if your end user is authenticated. This is important to give context or to protect APIs from unauthenticated users. You can use Okta to authenticate your end users and issue them signed access and ID tokens, which your application can then use. It is important that your application only uses the access token to grant access, and not the ID token. For more information about this, see the [Access Tokens vs ID Tokens](#access-tokens-vs-id-tokens) section below.

Once the signed tokens are issued to the end users they can be passed to your application, which must validate them. There are two ways to verify a token: locally, or remotely with Okta. The token has been signed with a JSON Web Key (JWK) using the RS256 algorithm. To validate the signature, Okta provides your application with a public key that can be used.

We will now cover the terms used in this document, and an explanation of why you should use access tokens instead of ID tokens for this use case.

- If you'd like to jump straight to the local validation steps: [What to Check When Validating an Access Token](#what-to-check-when-validating-an-access-token)
- If you'd like to see how to validate a token directly with Okta: [Validating A Token Remotely With Okta](#validating-a-token-remotely-with-okta)
- If you want to see specifically how to accomplish this in your language of choice: [Okta Libraries to Help You Verify Access Tokens](#okta-libraries-to-help-you-verify-access-tokens)

A high-level overview of OAuth 2.0 can be found [here](/docs/concepts/auth-overview/#oauth-2-0).

The access tokens are in [JSON Web Token (JWT)](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7519) format. They are signed using asynmmetrical [JSON Web Keys (JWK)](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7517).

More information about Okta's access tokens can be found in the [OIDC & OAuth 2.0 Reference](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#access-token).

## Access Tokens vs ID Tokens

As mentioned above, it is important that the resource server (your server-side application) accept only the access token from a client. This is because access tokens are intended for authorizing access to a resource.

ID Tokens, on the other hand, are intended for authentication. They provide information about the resource owner, to allow you verify that they are who they say they are. Authentication is the concern of the clients. Because of this, when a client makes an authentication request, the ID Token that is returned contains the `client_id` in the ID Token's `aud` claim.

## What to Check When Validating an Access Token

The high-level overview of validating an access token looks like this:

- Retrieve and parse your Okta JSON Web Keys (JWK), which should be checked periodically and cached by your application.
- Decode the access token, which is in JSON Web Token format
- Verify the signature used to sign the access token
- Verify the claims found inside the access token

### Retrieve The JSON Web Keys

The JSON Web Keys (JWK) need to be retrieved from your [Okta Authorization Server](/docs/guides/customize-authz-server/), though your application should have them cached. Specifically, your Authorization Server's Metadata endpoint contains the `jwks_uri`, which you can use to get the JWK.

> For more information about retrieving this metadata, see [Retrieve Authorization Server Metadata](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#well-knownoauth-authorization-server).

### Decoding and Validating the Access Token

You will have to decode the access token, which is in JWT format.  This involves the following steps:
- Verify the Token Signature
- Verify the Claims

Okta provides libraries to perform these steps for you:
<StackSelector snippet="accesstoken"/>

Don't see the language you're working in? Get in touch: <developers@okta.com>

## Validating A Token Remotely With Okta

Alternatively, you can also validate an access or refresh Token using the Token Introspection endpoint: [Introspection Request](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#introspect). This endpoint takes your token as a URL query parameter and returns back a simple JSON response with a boolean `active` property.

This incurs a network request which is slower to do verification, but can be used when you want to guarantee that the access token hasn't been revoked.

## Support

If you need help or have an issue, post a question in our [Developer Forum](https://devforum.okta.com).
