packages/@okta/vuepress-site/code/vue/okta_vue/index.md, before:

---
title: Okta Auth JS and Vue
language: Vue
icon: code-vue
excerpt: Integrate Okta with a Vue app using Auth JS.
---

This guide will walk you through integrating authentication into a Vue app with Okta by performing these steps:
1. [Add an OpenID Connect Client in Okta](#add-an-openid-connect-client-in-okta)
2. [Create a Vue App](#create-a-vue-app)
3. [Install Dependencies](#install-dependencies)
4. [Create a Custom Sign-In Form](#create-a-custom-sign-in-form)
5. [Create Routes](#create-routes)
6. [Connect the Routes](#connect-the-routes)
7. [Start Your App](#start-your-app)

## Prerequisites
If you do not already have a **Developer Edition Account**, you can create one at <https://developer.okta.com/signup/>.

## Add an OpenID Connect Client in Okta
* Sign in to the Okta Developer Dashboard, and select **Create New App**
* Choose **Single Page App (SPA)** as the platform, then populate your new OpenID Connect application with appropriate values for your app. For example:

| Setting              | Value                                               |
| -------------------  | --------------------------------------------------- |
| App Name             | OpenID Connect App (must be unique)                 |
| Login redirect URIs  | `http://localhost:8080/login/callback`              |
| Logout redirect URIs | `http://localhost:8080/`                            |
| Allowed grant types  | Authorization Code                                  |

> **Note:** CORS is automatically enabled for the granted login redirect URIs.

## Create a Vue App
To quickly create a Vue app, we recommend the Vue CLI. Follow [their guide](https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/installation.html) or use the steps below.

```
npm install -g @vue/cli
vue create okta-vue-auth-example
# Manually select features: choose defaults + Router
# Choose history mode for router
cd okta-vue-auth-example
```

## Install Dependencies
A simple way to add authentication to a Vue app is using the [Okta Auth JS](/code/javascript/okta_auth_sdk/) library. You can install it via `npm`:

```bash
npm install @okta/okta-auth-js
```

## Create a Custom Sign-In Form
If the [Okta Sign-In Widget](/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/) does not fit your needs, [AuthJS](/code/javascript/okta_auth_sdk/) provides lower-level access to User Lifecycle operations, MFA, and more. For this example, you'll create a simple username and password form without MFA.

Create `src/components/About.vue` with the following HTML:

```html
<template>
  <div>
    <h2>About</h2>
  </div>
</template>
```

Create `src/components/Dashboard.vue`. This page will only be viewable to authenticated folks.

```html
<template>
  <div>
    <h2>Dashboard</h2>
    <p>Yay you made it!</p>
  </div>
</template>
```

Create a `src/auth.js` file:

```js
const OktaAuth = require('@okta/okta-auth-js').OktaAuth
const authClient = new OktaAuth({issuer: 'https://{yourOktaDomain}'})

export default {
  login (email, pass, cb) {
    cb = arguments[arguments.length - 1]
    if (localStorage.token) {
      if (cb) cb(true)
      this.onChange(true)
      return
    }
    return authClient.signIn({
      username: email,
      password: pass
    }).then(transaction => {
      if (transaction.status === 'SUCCESS') {
        return authClient.token.getWithoutPrompt({
          clientId: '{clientId}',
          responseType: ['id_token', 'token'],
          scopes: ['openid', 'email', 'profile'],
          sessionToken: transaction.sessionToken,
          redirectUri: window.location.origin + '/login/callback'
        }).then(response => {
          localStorage.token = response.tokens.accessToken
          localStorage.idToken = response.tokens.idToken
          if (cb) cb(true)
          this.onChange(true)
        })
      }
    }).catch(err => {
      console.error(err.message)
      if (cb) cb(false)
      this.onChange(false)
    })
  },

  getToken () {
    return localStorage.token
  },

  logout (cb) {
    delete localStorage.token
    delete localStorage.idToken
    if (cb) cb()
    this.onChange(false)
    return authClient.signOut()
  },

  loggedIn () {
    return !!localStorage.token
  },

  onChange () {
  }
}
```

You’ll need to replace `{yourOktaDomain}` with your Okta domain in the code above. Replace `{clientId}` with the client ID from the app you created in the beginning.

Change `src/App.vue` to have the following code:

```html
<template>
  <div id="app">
    <h1>Okta Auth JS Example</h1>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <router-link v-if="loggedIn" to="/logout">Log out</router-link>
        <router-link v-if="!loggedIn" to="/login">Log in</router-link>
      </li>
      <li>
        <router-link to="/about">About</router-link>
      </li>
      <li>
        <router-link to="/dashboard">Dashboard</router-link>
        (authenticated)
      </li>
    </ul>
    <template v-if="$route.matched.length">
      <router-view></router-view>
    </template>
    <template v-else>
      <p>You are logged {{ loggedIn ? 'in' : 'out' }}</p>
    </template>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
import auth from './auth'
export default {
  data () {
    return {
      loggedIn: auth.loggedIn()
    }
  },
  created () {
    auth.onChange = loggedIn => {
      this.loggedIn = loggedIn
    }
  }
}
</script>

<style>
  html, body {
    font-family: -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, "Segoe UI", Roboto, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif, "Apple Color Emoji", "Segoe UI Emoji", "Segoe UI Symbol";
    color: #2c3e50;
  }

  #app {
    padding: 0 20px;
  }

  ul {
    line-height: 1.5em;
    padding-left: 1.5em;
  }

  a {
    color: #7f8c8d;
    text-decoration: none;
  }

  a:hover {
    color: #4fc08d;
  }
</style>
```

Add a `src/components/Login.vue` to render your sign-in form:

```html
<template>
  <div>
    <h2>Login</h2>
    <p v-if="$route.query.redirect">
      You need to login first.
    </p>
    <form @submit.prevent="login" autocomplete="off">
      <label><input v-model="email" placeholder="email" v-focus></label>
      <label><input v-model="pass" placeholder="password" type="password"></label><br>
      <button type="submit">login</button>
      <p v-if="error" class="error">Bad login information</p>
    </form>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
  import auth from '../auth'
  export default {
    data () {
      return {
        email: '',
        pass: '',
        error: false
      }
    },
    methods: {
      login () {
        auth.login(this.email, this.pass, loggedIn => {
          if (!loggedIn) {
            this.error = true
          } else {
            this.$router.replace(this.$route.query.redirect || '/')
          }
        })
      }
    }
  }
</script>

<style>
  .error {
    color: red;
  }
</style>
```

To make the `v-focus` directive on the email field work, add the following to `src/main.js` (before `new Vue({...})`).

```js
Vue.directive('focus', {
  // When the bound element is inserted into the DOM...
  inserted: function (el) {
    // Focus the element
    el.focus()
  }
})
```

## Create Routes

Some routes require authentication in order to render. Let's take a look at what routes are needed for this example:

- `/`: The default landing page.
- `/about`: A simple about page.
- `/dashboard`: A route that's protected.
- `/login`: The sign-in form.
- `/logout`: A route to logout and redirect back to the default page.

Create `src/router/index.js` with the following code.

```js
import Vue from 'vue'
import VueRouter from 'vue-router'
import auth from '@/auth'
import About from '@/components/About.vue'
import Dashboard from '@/components/Dashboard.vue'
import Login from '@/components/Login.vue'

Vue.use(VueRouter)

export default new VueRouter({
  mode: 'history',
  base: __dirname,
  routes: [
    { path: '/about', component: About },
    { path: '/dashboard', component: Dashboard, beforeEnter: requireAuth },
    { path: '/login', component: Login },
    { path: '/logout',
      beforeEnter (to, from, next) {
        auth.logout()
        next('/')
      }
    }
  ]
})

function requireAuth (to, from, next) {
  if (!auth.loggedIn()) {
    next({
      path: '/login',
      query: { redirect: to.fullPath }
    })
  } else {
    next()
  }
}
```

## Start your app
Finally, start your app:

```bash
npm run serve
```

<!--
// todo: this PR hasn't been approved and DevEx isn't sure they want Auth JS
// samples with the rest of the samples.
## Source Code

The source code for this guide can be found in [in the Vue Samples](https://github.com/okta/samples-js-vue/tree/master/okta-auth-js) on GitHub.
-->

## Conclusion
You have now successfully authenticated with Okta! Now what? With a user's `id_token`, you have basic claims for the user's identity. You can extend the set of claims by modifying the `scopes` to retrieve custom information about the user. This includes `locale`, `address`, `groups`, and [more](/docs/reference/api/oidc/).

Want to learn how to use the user's `access_token`? Check out our <a href='/docs/guides/sign-into-spa/vue/before-you-begin/' data-proofer-ignore>Vue How To Guide</a> to learn about protecting routes on your server, validating the `access_token`, and more!

## Support
Have a question or see a bug? Post your question on the [Okta Developer Forums](https://devforum.okta.com/).

Commit message:

add more of application type warnings

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/code/vue/okta_vue/index.md, after:

---
title: Okta Auth JS and Vue
language: Vue
icon: code-vue
excerpt: Integrate Okta with a Vue app using Auth JS.
---

This guide will walk you through integrating authentication into a Vue app with Okta by performing these steps:
1. [Add an OpenID Connect Client in Okta](#add-an-openid-connect-client-in-okta)
2. [Create a Vue App](#create-a-vue-app)
3. [Install Dependencies](#install-dependencies)
4. [Create a Custom Sign-In Form](#create-a-custom-sign-in-form)
5. [Create Routes](#create-routes)
6. [Connect the Routes](#connect-the-routes)
7. [Start Your App](#start-your-app)

## Prerequisites
If you do not already have a **Developer Edition Account**, you can create one at <https://developer.okta.com/signup/>.

## Add an OpenID Connect Client in Okta
* Sign in to the Okta Developer Dashboard, and select **Create New App**
* Choose **Single Page App (SPA)** as the platform, then populate your new OpenID Connect application with appropriate values for your app. For example:

| Setting              | Value                                               |
| -------------------  | --------------------------------------------------- |
| App Name             | OpenID Connect App (must be unique)                 |
| Login redirect URIs  | `http://localhost:8080/login/callback`              |
| Logout redirect URIs | `http://localhost:8080/`                            |
| Allowed grant types  | Authorization Code                                  |

> **Note:** It is important to choose the appropriate application type for apps which are public clients. Failing to do so may result in Okta API endpoints attempting to verify an app's client secret, which public clients are not designed to have, hence breaking the sign-in or sign-out flow.

> **Note:** CORS is automatically enabled for the granted login redirect URIs.

## Create a Vue App
To quickly create a Vue app, we recommend the Vue CLI. Follow [their guide](https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/installation.html) or use the steps below.

```
npm install -g @vue/cli
vue create okta-vue-auth-example
# Manually select features: choose defaults + Router
# Choose history mode for router
cd okta-vue-auth-example
```

## Install Dependencies
A simple way to add authentication to a Vue app is using the [Okta Auth JS](/code/javascript/okta_auth_sdk/) library. You can install it via `npm`:

```bash
npm install @okta/okta-auth-js
```

## Create a Custom Sign-In Form
If the [Okta Sign-In Widget](/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/) does not fit your needs, [AuthJS](/code/javascript/okta_auth_sdk/) provides lower-level access to User Lifecycle operations, MFA, and more. For this example, you'll create a simple username and password form without MFA.

Create `src/components/About.vue` with the following HTML:

```html
<template>
  <div>
    <h2>About</h2>
  </div>
</template>
```

Create `src/components/Dashboard.vue`. This page will only be viewable to authenticated folks.

```html
<template>
  <div>
    <h2>Dashboard</h2>
    <p>Yay you made it!</p>
  </div>
</template>
```

Create a `src/auth.js` file:

```js
const OktaAuth = require('@okta/okta-auth-js').OktaAuth
const authClient = new OktaAuth({issuer: 'https://{yourOktaDomain}'})

export default {
  login (email, pass, cb) {
    cb = arguments[arguments.length - 1]
    if (localStorage.token) {
      if (cb) cb(true)
      this.onChange(true)
      return
    }
    return authClient.signIn({
      username: email,
      password: pass
    }).then(transaction => {
      if (transaction.status === 'SUCCESS') {
        return authClient.token.getWithoutPrompt({
          clientId: '{clientId}',
          responseType: ['id_token', 'token'],
          scopes: ['openid', 'email', 'profile'],
          sessionToken: transaction.sessionToken,
          redirectUri: window.location.origin + '/login/callback'
        }).then(response => {
          localStorage.token = response.tokens.accessToken
          localStorage.idToken = response.tokens.idToken
          if (cb) cb(true)
          this.onChange(true)
        })
      }
    }).catch(err => {
      console.error(err.message)
      if (cb) cb(false)
      this.onChange(false)
    })
  },

  getToken () {
    return localStorage.token
  },

  logout (cb) {
    delete localStorage.token
    delete localStorage.idToken
    if (cb) cb()
    this.onChange(false)
    return authClient.signOut()
  },

  loggedIn () {
    return !!localStorage.token
  },

  onChange () {
  }
}
```

You’ll need to replace `{yourOktaDomain}` with your Okta domain in the code above. Replace `{clientId}` with the client ID from the app you created in the beginning.

Change `src/App.vue` to have the following code:

```html
<template>
  <div id="app">
    <h1>Okta Auth JS Example</h1>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <router-link v-if="loggedIn" to="/logout">Log out</router-link>
        <router-link v-if="!loggedIn" to="/login">Log in</router-link>
      </li>
      <li>
        <router-link to="/about">About</router-link>
      </li>
      <li>
        <router-link to="/dashboard">Dashboard</router-link>
        (authenticated)
      </li>
    </ul>
    <template v-if="$route.matched.length">
      <router-view></router-view>
    </template>
    <template v-else>
      <p>You are logged {{ loggedIn ? 'in' : 'out' }}</p>
    </template>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
import auth from './auth'
export default {
  data () {
    return {
      loggedIn: auth.loggedIn()
    }
  },
  created () {
    auth.onChange = loggedIn => {
      this.loggedIn = loggedIn
    }
  }
}
</script>

<style>
  html, body {
    font-family: -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, "Segoe UI", Roboto, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif, "Apple Color Emoji", "Segoe UI Emoji", "Segoe UI Symbol";
    color: #2c3e50;
  }

  #app {
    padding: 0 20px;
  }

  ul {
    line-height: 1.5em;
    padding-left: 1.5em;
  }

  a {
    color: #7f8c8d;
    text-decoration: none;
  }

  a:hover {
    color: #4fc08d;
  }
</style>
```

Add a `src/components/Login.vue` to render your sign-in form:

```html
<template>
  <div>
    <h2>Login</h2>
    <p v-if="$route.query.redirect">
      You need to login first.
    </p>
    <form @submit.prevent="login" autocomplete="off">
      <label><input v-model="email" placeholder="email" v-focus></label>
      <label><input v-model="pass" placeholder="password" type="password"></label><br>
      <button type="submit">login</button>
      <p v-if="error" class="error">Bad login information</p>
    </form>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
  import auth from '../auth'
  export default {
    data () {
      return {
        email: '',
        pass: '',
        error: false
      }
    },
    methods: {
      login () {
        auth.login(this.email, this.pass, loggedIn => {
          if (!loggedIn) {
            this.error = true
          } else {
            this.$router.replace(this.$route.query.redirect || '/')
          }
        })
      }
    }
  }
</script>

<style>
  .error {
    color: red;
  }
</style>
```

To make the `v-focus` directive on the email field work, add the following to `src/main.js` (before `new Vue({...})`).

```js
Vue.directive('focus', {
  // When the bound element is inserted into the DOM...
  inserted: function (el) {
    // Focus the element
    el.focus()
  }
})
```

## Create Routes

Some routes require authentication in order to render. Let's take a look at what routes are needed for this example:

- `/`: The default landing page.
- `/about`: A simple about page.
- `/dashboard`: A route that's protected.
- `/login`: The sign-in form.
- `/logout`: A route to logout and redirect back to the default page.

Create `src/router/index.js` with the following code.

```js
import Vue from 'vue'
import VueRouter from 'vue-router'
import auth from '@/auth'
import About from '@/components/About.vue'
import Dashboard from '@/components/Dashboard.vue'
import Login from '@/components/Login.vue'

Vue.use(VueRouter)

export default new VueRouter({
  mode: 'history',
  base: __dirname,
  routes: [
    { path: '/about', component: About },
    { path: '/dashboard', component: Dashboard, beforeEnter: requireAuth },
    { path: '/login', component: Login },
    { path: '/logout',
      beforeEnter (to, from, next) {
        auth.logout()
        next('/')
      }
    }
  ]
})

function requireAuth (to, from, next) {
  if (!auth.loggedIn()) {
    next({
      path: '/login',
      query: { redirect: to.fullPath }
    })
  } else {
    next()
  }
}
```

## Start your app
Finally, start your app:

```bash
npm run serve
```

<!--
// todo: this PR hasn't been approved and DevEx isn't sure they want Auth JS
// samples with the rest of the samples.
## Source Code

The source code for this guide can be found in [in the Vue Samples](https://github.com/okta/samples-js-vue/tree/master/okta-auth-js) on GitHub.
-->

## Conclusion
You have now successfully authenticated with Okta! Now what? With a user's `id_token`, you have basic claims for the user's identity. You can extend the set of claims by modifying the `scopes` to retrieve custom information about the user. This includes `locale`, `address`, `groups`, and [more](/docs/reference/api/oidc/).

Want to learn how to use the user's `access_token`? Check out our <a href='/docs/guides/sign-into-spa/vue/before-you-begin/' data-proofer-ignore>Vue How To Guide</a> to learn about protecting routes on your server, validating the `access_token`, and more!

## Support
Have a question or see a bug? Post your question on the [Okta Developer Forums](https://devforum.okta.com/).
