packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/sharing-cert/overview/index.md, before:

---
title: Overview
---

[Application Key Credential objects](/docs/reference/api/apps/#application-key-credential-object) contain an opaque key ID (`kid`) and a corresponding certificate. To use the [API](/docs/reference/api/apps/#clone-application-key-credential) to share application key credentials between apps, you need to clone an application key credential. You create and use a new credential in one app, and then share and update the credential in another app.

Sharing certificates is useful for Okta orgs that have apps with [sign-on modes](/docs/reference/api/apps/#sign-on-modes) such as `SAML_2_0`, `SAML_1_1`, or `WS_FEDERATION`.

### Why should I do this

When configuring multiple apps, you might need them to accept the same Identity Provider (IdP). In that case, the assertions from the two apps must be signed by the same key.

For example, a company wants to implement SSO for their Finance app. The company requires two app instances of the Finance app for their implementation, and the Finance app only accepts one SAML Identity Provider. The assertions from the two app instances of Finance need to look identical.

### How to share the certificate

For this example, we assume that you want to share a certificate between two instances of an app:

* `app1` is the source app, the app from which you want to share a certificate.
* `app2` is the target app, the app that receives the source app's certificate.

This example also works if the apps are two instances of the same app or two different apps.

<NextSectionLink/>

Commit message:

Standardizes support instructions for guides (#1287)
* Standardizes support instructions for guides

For all guides in the library:
* Moved (or added) instructions on how to get support through the developer forum from the last page of the guide to the first page
* Shortened the text pointing developers to get a free developer org, as it was wrapping weirdly in all the guides.
* Cleaned up a few places where there were extra spaces or new lines at the ends of files.

* Restores the interrogative

Don't have one?

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/sharing-cert/overview/index.md, after:

---
title: Overview
---

[Application Key Credential objects](/docs/reference/api/apps/#application-key-credential-object) contain an opaque key ID (`kid`) and a corresponding certificate. To use the [API](/docs/reference/api/apps/#clone-application-key-credential) to share application key credentials between apps, you need to clone an application key credential. You create and use a new credential in one app, and then share and update the credential in another app.

Sharing certificates is useful for Okta orgs that have apps with [sign-on modes](/docs/reference/api/apps/#sign-on-modes) such as `SAML_2_0`, `SAML_1_1`, or `WS_FEDERATION`.

### Why should I do this

When configuring multiple apps, you might need them to accept the same Identity Provider (IdP). In that case, the assertions from the two apps must be signed by the same key.

For example, a company wants to implement SSO for their Finance app. The company requires two app instances of the Finance app for their implementation, and the Finance app only accepts one SAML Identity Provider. The assertions from the two app instances of Finance need to look identical.

### How to share the certificate

For this example, we assume that you want to share a certificate between two instances of an app:

* `app1` is the source app, the app from which you want to share a certificate.
* `app2` is the target app, the app that receives the source app's certificate.

This example also works if the apps are two instances of the same app or two different apps.

## Support

If you need help or have an issue, post a question in our [Developer Forum](https://devforum.okta.com).

<NextSectionLink/>
