packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/oie-embedded-widget-run-sample/main/aspnet/testapp.md, before:

The sample app is located here: `okta-idx-dotnet/samples/samples-aspnet/embedded-sign-in-widget`

## Steps to test the sample app

1. If not already done, setup your Okta org by completing the steps located at
   [Set up your Okta org (for password factor only use cases)](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-common-org-setup/aspnet/main/#set-up-your-okta-org-for-password-factor-only-use-cases).
1. If not already done,
   [download and setup the sample app](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-common-download-setup-app/aspnet/main/).
1. Locate the sample apps solution file in the following path:
`...\okta-idx-dotnet\samples\samples-aspnet\embedded-sign-in-widget`
1. Open `embedded-sign-in-widget.sln` using Visual Studio
1. Right click on the embedded-sign-in-widget project (which is the sample app)
   and select **Set as startup project**.
1. Add a `okta.yaml` configuration file. For more information on how to configure
   and where to place the configuration file see [Option 1: YAML configuration file](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-common-download-setup-app/aspnet/main/#option-1-configuration-file).
1. Click Visual Studio’s play button and run the solution. The default web browser
   should open and navigate to the application home page. The URL should be:
   `https://localhost:44314`,  which is the default address when using IISExpress.
   Once the app loads, click the **Sign In** button located on the home screen.
1. On the Sign in page enter the username (email) and password you used in
   [Create your Okta account](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-common-org-setup/aspnet/main/#create-your-okta-account).
   A screenshot of the log in form is shown below:

   <div class="common-image-format">

    ![Sample app sign in](/img/oie-embedded-sdk/oie-embedded-widget-sample-app-signin.png
   "Sample app sign in")

   </div>

1. Click Sign in.
1. If successful, the app should redirect you to the user profile page that displays
   basic user profile and security token information.

   <div class="common-image-format">

    ![User profile page](/img/oie-embedded-sdk/oie-embedded-sdk-sample-app-user-profile-page.png
   "User profile page")

   </div>

## Troubleshooting

1. If you get a Null Reference exception when the `IDXClient` is
   instantiated, check to make sure you have properly setup your local
   configurations. To troubleshoot the error, set the local configurations
   in the `IdxClient`'s constructor to determine whether the issue is
   originating from the SDK not being able to locate your configurations.

1. If the Widget does not load and instead displays the following error:
   “There was an unexpected internal error. Please try again.”,
   make sure CORS is enabled. Follow the steps in
   [Add a trusted origin and enable CORS](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-common-org-setup/aspnet/main/#step-3-add-a-trusted-origin-and-enable-cors)
   to make sure CORS is enabled.

Commit message:

Fixed setup vs set up wording

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/oie-embedded-widget-run-sample/main/aspnet/testapp.md, after:

The sample app is located here: `okta-idx-dotnet/samples/samples-aspnet/embedded-sign-in-widget`

## Steps to test the sample app

1. If not already done, set up your Okta org by completing the steps located at
   [Set up your Okta org (for password factor only use cases)](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-common-org-setup/aspnet/main/#set-up-your-okta-org-for-password-factor-only-use-cases).
1. If not already done,
   [download and set up the sample app](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-common-download-setup-app/aspnet/main/).
1. Locate the sample apps solution file in the following path:
`...\okta-idx-dotnet\samples\samples-aspnet\embedded-sign-in-widget`
1. Open `embedded-sign-in-widget.sln` using Visual Studio
1. Right click on the embedded-sign-in-widget project (which is the sample app)
   and select **Set as startup project**.
1. Add a `okta.yaml` configuration file. For more information on how to configure
   and where to place the configuration file see [Option 1: YAML configuration file](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-common-download-setup-app/aspnet/main/#option-1-configuration-file).
1. Click Visual Studio’s play button and run the solution. The default web browser
   should open and navigate to the application home page. The URL should be:
   `https://localhost:44314`,  which is the default address when using IISExpress.
   Once the app loads, click the **Sign In** button located on the home screen.
1. On the Sign in page enter the username (email) and password you used in
   [Create your Okta account](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-common-org-setup/aspnet/main/#create-your-okta-account).
   A screenshot of the log in form is shown below:

   <div class="common-image-format">

    ![Sample app sign in](/img/oie-embedded-sdk/oie-embedded-widget-sample-app-signin.png
   "Sample app sign in")

   </div>

1. Click Sign in.
1. If successful, the app should redirect you to the user profile page that displays
   basic user profile and security token information.

   <div class="common-image-format">

    ![User profile page](/img/oie-embedded-sdk/oie-embedded-sdk-sample-app-user-profile-page.png
   "User profile page")

   </div>

## Troubleshooting

1. If you get a Null Reference exception when the `IDXClient` is
   instantiated, check to make sure you have properly set up your local
   configurations. To troubleshoot the error, set the local configurations
   in the `IdxClient`'s constructor to determine whether the issue is
   originating from the SDK not being able to locate your configurations.

1. If the Widget does not load and instead displays the following error:
   “There was an unexpected internal error. Please try again.”,
   make sure CORS is enabled. Follow the steps in
   [Add a trusted origin and enable CORS](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-common-org-setup/aspnet/main/#step-3-add-a-trusted-origin-and-enable-cors)
   to make sure CORS is enabled.
