packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/build-sso-integration/specify-your-settings/openidconnect/settings.md, before:

### Specify OIDC settings

* On the **General** tab, in the **Application** area, you can rename your integration and select which [grant type options](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2017/07/25/oidc-primer-part-1#whats-a-response-type) are allowed.

* If you only want to support direct SSO to your application (so the integration isn't launched from the Okta End-User Dashboard), then:
  1. Enter one or more **Login redirect URI** values where Okta sends the OAuth responses.
  1. Set the **Login initiated by** drop-down box to **App Only**.
  1. Leave all of the remaining entries at their default values.

* If you want to support launching your application from the Okta dashboard:
  1. Enter one or more **Login redirect URI** values where Okta sends the OAuth responses.
  2. (Optional). Enter one or more **Logout redirect URIs** where Okta sends relying-party initiated sign-out requests.
  3. Change the **Login initiated by** field to **Either Okta or App** to give your integration an Okta tile.
      >**Note:** When you select this option, an **App Embed Link** section appears at the bottom of the page with the URL that can be used to sign in to the OIDC client from outside of Okta.
  4. Check the box for **Display application icon to users**.
  5. Select the appropriate **Login flow** option. If you choose **Send ID Token directly to app (Okta Simplified)**, you can also choose the **Scopes** associated with the sign-in flow.
  6. Enter or change the URI used to initiate the sign-in request.
  7. Click **Save** to commit your changes.

* If required, you can generate a new client secret. In the **Client Credentials** section, click **Edit**, then **Generate New Client Secret**.

* You can use the `.well-known/openid-configuration` API endpoint to configure Okta interactions programmatically. When a web integration has the  `implicit` value set for the `grant_types_supported` property, then admins can publish integrations with the **Login initiated by** feature.

  For more information, see the [OpenID Connect](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#well-known-openid-configuration) API reference.

<!--[ian 2020.02.25] we don't currently support OIDC native applications in the OIN -->
<!--
#### Native applications

1. Select from among the different grant type options.
1. Enter one or more login redirect URIs where Okta sends the OAuth responses.
1. (Optional). Enter one or more logout redirect URIs where Okta sends relying-party initiated sign-out requests.
1. Click **Save** to commit your changes.

* In the **Client Credentials** section, you can select a **Client authentication** type:
  * **Use PKCE (for public clients)** &mdash; Recommended for native applications. By requiring a Proof Key for Code Exchange, this option ensures that only the client that requested the access token can redeem it.
  * **Use Client Authentication** &mdash; This option isn't recommended for distributed native applications. A client secret is embedded in the client and sent with requests to prove the client's identity.
* Click **Save** to commit your changes.

* If required, you can generate a new client secret. In the **Client Credentials** section, click **Edit**, then **Generate New Client Secret**.
-->

<!-- [ian 2020.02.25] we don't currently support OIDC SPA applications in the OIN -->
<!--
#### Single Page applications

1. Select from among the different grant type options.
1. If you only want to support direct SSO to your integration (not launched from the Okta End-User Dashboard), then you only need to set the **Login initiated by**  to App Only, enter one or more **Login redirect URI** values, and you can leave all of the remaining entries at their default values.
1. If you want to support launching your application from Okta:
    1. Enter one or more redirect URIs where Okta sends the OAuth responses.
    1. (Optional). Enter one or more logout redirect URIs where Okta sends relying-party initiated sign-out requests.
    1. Change the **Login initiated by** field to “Either Okta or App” to grant your integration an Okta tile. When you select this option and click **Save**, an **App Embed Link** section appears on the **General Settings** page that shows the URL used to sign in to the OIDC client from outside of Okta..
    1. Check the box for **Display application icon to users**.
    1. Select the appropriate **Login flow** option. If you choose **Send ID Token directly to app (Okta Simplified)**, you're also able to choose **Scopes** for the flow.
    1. Enter or change the URI used to initiate the sign-in request.
    1. Click **Save** to commit your changes.

* If required, you can generate a new client secret. In the **Client Credentials** section, click **Edit**, then **Generate New Client Secret**.
-->

### Consent

>**Note:** OIDC consent is an Early Access feature. To enable it, contact [Okta Support](https://support.okta.com/help/s/).

* If you have enabled User Consent for OAuth 2.0 Flows in API Access Management, then the following section appears in the **General Settings** tab for an OIDC integration.

    ![Consent](/img/oin/sso_user-consent.png "User Consent Panel")

* If you want to prompt your user to approve the integration access to specified resources, select the **Require consent** box. Alternatively, you can set up the consent for a scope in your custom authorization, as described in the [Create Scopes](https://help.okta.com/en/prod/okta_help_CSH.htm#create-scopes) section of the API Access Management documentation.

### Set the Groups claims filter

* You can define your own Groups claims outside the default set of claims that are contained in ID tokens and access tokens.
* To specify the Groups claim filter:
  * Go to the **Sign On** tab
  * Click **Edit** in the **OpenID Connect ID Token** section.
  * The Group claim filter contains a list of the user's groups for the ID token:
    * The first field identifies the claim name to use in the token.
    * The second field sets a filter for the list of groups.
    >**Note:** If the value you specify in the Groups claim filter matches more than 100 groups, an error occurs when the API tries to create ID tokens.

* For more detail on adding a Groups claim with tokens, see [Add a Groups claim](/docs/guides/customize-tokens-returned-from-okta/create-groups-claim/).

Commit message:

Update logout URI info (#1260)
* Update logout URI info

Clarify the Single Logout operations for OIDC and SAML in the SSO guide.

Resolves [OKTA-272673](https://oktainc.atlassian.net/browse/OKTA-2726730)

* Update settings.md

Fix logging out

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/build-sso-integration/specify-your-settings/openidconnect/settings.md, after:

### Specify OIDC settings

* On the **General** tab, in the **Application** area, you can rename your integration and select which [grant type options](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2017/07/25/oidc-primer-part-1#whats-a-response-type) are allowed.

* If you only want to support direct SSO to your application (so the integration isn't launched from the Okta End-User Dashboard), then:
  1. Enter one or more **Login redirect URI** values where Okta sends the OAuth responses.
  1. Set the **Login initiated by** drop-down box to **App Only**.
  1. Leave all of the remaining entries at their default values.

* If you want to support launching your application from the Okta dashboard:
  1. Enter one or more **Login redirect URI** values where Okta sends the OAuth responses.
  2. (Optional). Enter the **Logout redirect URIs** where Okta redirects the browser after receiving the sign out request from the relying-party and terminating its end-user session. See [Single Logout](https://help.okta.com/en/prod/okta_help_CSH.htm#ext_Apps_Single_Logout) or the [`/logout` API endpoint](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#logout).
  3. Change the **Login initiated by** field to **Either Okta or App** to give your integration an Okta tile.
      >**Note:** When you select this option, an **App Embed Link** section appears at the bottom of the page with the URL that can be used to sign in to the OIDC client from outside of Okta.
  4. Check the box for **Display application icon to users**.
  5. Select the appropriate **Login flow** option. If you choose **Send ID Token directly to app (Okta Simplified)**, you can also choose the **Scopes** associated with the sign-in flow.
  6. Enter or change the URI used to initiate the sign-in request.
  7. Click **Save** to commit your changes.

* If required, you can generate a new client secret. In the **Client Credentials** section, click **Edit**, then **Generate New Client Secret**.

* You can use the `.well-known/openid-configuration` API endpoint to configure Okta interactions programmatically. When a web integration has the  `implicit` value set for the `grant_types_supported` property, then admins can publish integrations with the **Login initiated by** feature.

  For more information, see the [OpenID Connect](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#well-known-openid-configuration) API reference.

<!--[ian 2020.02.25] we don't currently support OIDC native applications in the OIN -->
<!--
#### Native applications

1. Select from among the different grant type options.
1. Enter one or more login redirect URIs where Okta sends the OAuth responses.
1. (Optional). Enter one or more logout redirect URIs where Okta sends relying-party initiated sign-out requests.
1. Click **Save** to commit your changes.

* In the **Client Credentials** section, you can select a **Client authentication** type:
  * **Use PKCE (for public clients)** &mdash; Recommended for native applications. By requiring a Proof Key for Code Exchange, this option ensures that only the client that requested the access token can redeem it.
  * **Use Client Authentication** &mdash; This option isn't recommended for distributed native applications. A client secret is embedded in the client and sent with requests to prove the client's identity.
* Click **Save** to commit your changes.

* If required, you can generate a new client secret. In the **Client Credentials** section, click **Edit**, then **Generate New Client Secret**.
-->

<!-- [ian 2020.02.25] we don't currently support OIDC SPA applications in the OIN -->
<!--
#### Single Page applications

1. Select from among the different grant type options.
1. If you only want to support direct SSO to your integration (not launched from the Okta End-User Dashboard), then you only need to set the **Login initiated by**  to App Only, enter one or more **Login redirect URI** values, and you can leave all of the remaining entries at their default values.
1. If you want to support launching your application from Okta:
    1. Enter one or more redirect URIs where Okta sends the OAuth responses.
    1. (Optional). Enter one or more logout redirect URIs where Okta sends relying-party initiated sign-out requests.
    1. Change the **Login initiated by** field to “Either Okta or App” to grant your integration an Okta tile. When you select this option and click **Save**, an **App Embed Link** section appears on the **General Settings** page that shows the URL used to sign in to the OIDC client from outside of Okta..
    1. Check the box for **Display application icon to users**.
    1. Select the appropriate **Login flow** option. If you choose **Send ID Token directly to app (Okta Simplified)**, you're also able to choose **Scopes** for the flow.
    1. Enter or change the URI used to initiate the sign-in request.
    1. Click **Save** to commit your changes.

* If required, you can generate a new client secret. In the **Client Credentials** section, click **Edit**, then **Generate New Client Secret**.
-->

### Consent

>**Note:** OIDC consent is an Early Access feature. To enable it, contact [Okta Support](https://support.okta.com/help/s/).

* If you have enabled User Consent for OAuth 2.0 Flows in API Access Management, then the following section appears in the **General Settings** tab for an OIDC integration.

    ![Consent](/img/oin/sso_user-consent.png "User Consent Panel")

* If you want to prompt your user to approve the integration access to specified resources, select the **Require consent** box. Alternatively, you can set up the consent for a scope in your custom authorization, as described in the [Create Scopes](https://help.okta.com/en/prod/okta_help_CSH.htm#create-scopes) section of the API Access Management documentation.

### Set the Groups claims filter

* You can define your own Groups claims outside the default set of claims that are contained in ID tokens and access tokens.
* To specify the Groups claim filter:
  * Go to the **Sign On** tab
  * Click **Edit** in the **OpenID Connect ID Token** section.
  * The Group claim filter contains a list of the user's groups for the ID token:
    * The first field identifies the claim name to use in the token.
    * The second field sets a filter for the list of groups.
    >**Note:** If the value you specify in the Groups claim filter matches more than 100 groups, an error occurs when the API tries to create ID tokens.

* For more detail on adding a Groups claim with tokens, see [Add a Groups claim](/docs/guides/customize-tokens-returned-from-okta/create-groups-claim/).
