packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/rate-limits/index.md, before:

---
title: Rate limits overview
excerpt: >-
  Understand rate limits at Okta and learn how to design for efficient use of
  resources
---

# Rate limits overview

To protect the service for all customers, Okta APIs are subject to rate limiting. These limits mitigate denial-of-service attacks and abusive actions such as rapidly updating configurations, aggressive polling and concurrency, or excessive API calls.

The Okta API rate limits are divided into three categories: authentication/end user, management, and other endpoints. Each category has APIs with rate limits that are enforced individually as well as a cumulative rate limit. The rate limits vary by [service subscription](https://developer.okta.com/pricing/).

#### API rate limit categories and cumulative rate limits

To access the individual API limits, visit a category page by clicking the appropriate category link in the table.

> We enforce limits at the individual API endpoint level **as requests per minute**.

| Category                                                          | Developer (free) | Developer (paid) | One App | Enterprise | Workforce Identity    |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- | ------- | ---------- | --------------------- |
| [Authentication/End user](/docs/reference/rl-global-enduser/)     | 1,600             | 3,800             | 4,200    | 10,650      | 13,300                 |
| [Management](/docs/reference/rl-global-mgmt/)                     | 985              | 2,425             | 2,425    | 5,200       | 7,020                  |
| [Other endpoints](/docs/reference/rl-global-other-endpoints/)     | 1,000             | 3,000             | 3,000    | 6,000       | 10,000                 |

If an org-wide rate limit is exceeded, an HTTP 429 status code is returned. You can anticipate hitting the rate limit by checking [Okta's rate limiting headers](/docs/reference/rl-best-practices/#check-your-rate-limits-with-okta-s-rate-limit-headers). Additionally, if you have a One App or Enterprise organization, the Admin Console displays a banner, and you are sent an email notification when your org approaches its rate limit.

> **Notes:**
>
> * In addition to the rate limit per API, Okta implements limits on concurrent requests, Okta-generated email messages, end user requests, and home page endpoints. These limits are described on the [Additional limits](/docs/reference/rl-additional-limits/) page.
> * [DynamicScale rate limits](/docs/reference/rl-dynamic-scale/) apply to a variety of endpoints across different APIs for customers that purchased this add-on.
> * Rate limits may be changed to protect customers. We provide advance warning of changes when possible.
> * You can expand the Okta rate limits upon request. To learn how, see [Request exceptions](/docs/reference/rl-best-practices/#request-exceptions) and [DynamicScale rate limits](/docs/reference/rl-dynamic-scale/).
>

## Other applicable rate limit content

* [Concurrent rate limits](/docs/reference/rl-additional-limits/#concurrent-rate-limits): To protect the service for all customers, Okta enforces concurrent rate limits, which is a limit on the number of simultaneous transactions. Concurrent rate limits are distinct from the org-wide, per-minute API rate limits, which measure the total number of transactions per minute. Transactions are typically very short-lived. Even very large bulk loads rarely use more than 10 simultaneous transactions at a time.

* [DynamicScale rate limits](/docs/reference/rl-dynamic-scale/): If your needs exceed Okta's default rate limits for the base product subscriptions (One App or Enterprise) that you've already purchased, the  DynamicScale add-on service grants you higher limits for a variety of endpoints across different APIs.

* [End-user rate limits](/docs/reference/rl-additional-limits/#end-user-rate-limits): Okta limits the number of requests from the Admin Console and End-User Dashboard to 40 requests per user per 10 seconds per endpoint. This rate limit protects users from each other and from other API requests in the system.

* [Home page endpoints and per-minute limits](/docs/reference/rl-additional-limits/#okta-home-page-endpoints-and-per-minute-limits): These endpoints are used by the Okta home page for authentication and user sign in and have org-wide rate limits.

* [Previous rate limits](/docs/reference/rl-previous/): This content covers the rate limits for orgs that were created before 2018-05-17.

* [Okta API endpoints and per-user limits](/docs/reference/rl-additional-limits/#okta-api-endpoints-and-per-user-limits): API endpoints that take username and password credentials, including the [Authentication API](/docs/reference/api/authn/) and the [OAuth 2.0 resource owner password flow](/docs/guides/implement-password/), have a per-username rate limit to prevent brute force attacks with the user's password.

* [Okta-generated email message rate limits](/docs/reference/rl-additional-limits/#okta-generated-email-message-rate-limits): These rate limits vary by email type. Okta enforces rate limits on the number of Okta-generated email messages that are sent to customers and customer users. For example, if the number of emails sent to a given user exceeds the per-minute limit for a given email type, subsequent emails of that type are dropped for that user until that minute elapses.

Commit message:

Release 2020.10.0 (#1537)
* client-based rate limits (#1467)

* first draft client-based rate limits

* Updating heading styles that I missed

* fixing broken link

* Venkat comments addressed

* adding overview paragraph to main rate limits overview page

* additional venkat comments

* Venkat updates

* one tweak to steps

* Ian's review

* right-align numbers in tables (#1477)

* right-align numbers in tables

* updating Authentication/End-user rate limits per 332153

* rounding down rates on rate limits overview page per Yuliya

* updating cumulative rows with rounded down rate limits

* wrong file

* tweak

* fixing heading formats

* update to cumulative RLs for auth/user

* Add documentation for group search and app group API enhancement (#1459)

* Creating rn entry. (#1535)

* Updating error code, event type, and oauth2 error code pages. (#1536)

Co-authored-by: Susan <susan.harper@okta.com>
Co-authored-by: chenningzhang-okta <chenning.zhang@okta.com>

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/rate-limits/index.md, after:

---
title: Rate limits overview
excerpt: >-
  Understand rate limits at Okta and learn how to design for efficient use of resources
---

# Rate limits overview

To protect the service for all customers, Okta APIs are subject to rate limiting. These limits mitigate denial-of-service attacks and abusive actions such as rapidly updating configurations, aggressive polling and concurrency, or excessive API calls.

The Okta API rate limits are divided into three categories: authentication/end user, management, and other endpoints. Each category has APIs with rate limits that are enforced individually as well as a cumulative rate limit. The rate limits vary by [service subscription](https://developer.okta.com/pricing/).

#### API rate limit categories and cumulative rate limits

To access the individual API limits, visit a category page by clicking the appropriate category link in the table.

> We enforce limits at the individual API endpoint level **as requests per minute**.

| Category                                                          | Developer (free) | Developer (paid) | One App | Enterprise | Workforce Identity    |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------:| ----------------:| -------:| ----------:| ---------------------:|
| [Authentication/End user](/docs/reference/rl-global-enduser/)     | 1,600            | 8,400            | 8,400   | 10,600     | 13,000                |
| [Management](/docs/reference/rl-global-mgmt/)                     | 980              | 2,400            | 2,400   | 5,200      | 7,000                 |
| [Other endpoints](/docs/reference/rl-global-other-endpoints/)     | 1,000            | 3,000            | 3,000   | 6,000      | 10,000                |

If an org-wide rate limit is exceeded, an HTTP 429 status code is returned. You can anticipate hitting the rate limit by checking [Okta's rate limiting headers](/docs/reference/rl-best-practices/#check-your-rate-limits-with-okta-s-rate-limit-headers). Additionally, if you have a One App or Enterprise organization, the Admin Console displays a banner, and you are sent an email notification when your org approaches its rate limit.

> **Notes:**
>
> * In addition to the rate limit per API, Okta implements limits on concurrent requests, Okta-generated email messages, end user requests, and home page endpoints. These limits are described on the [Additional limits](/docs/reference/rl-additional-limits/) page.
> * [DynamicScale rate limits](/docs/reference/rl-dynamic-scale/) apply to a variety of endpoints across different APIs for customers that purchased this add-on.
> * Rate limits may be changed to protect customers. We provide advance warning of changes when possible.
> * You can expand the Okta rate limits upon request. To learn how, see [Request exceptions](/docs/reference/rl-best-practices/#request-exceptions) and [DynamicScale rate limits](/docs/reference/rl-dynamic-scale/).
>
## Other applicable rate limit content

* [Concurrent rate limits](/docs/reference/rl-additional-limits/#concurrent-rate-limits): To protect the service for all customers, Okta enforces concurrent rate limits, which is a limit on the number of simultaneous transactions. Concurrent rate limits are distinct from the org-wide, per-minute API rate limits, which measure the total number of transactions per minute. Transactions are typically very short-lived. Even very large bulk loads rarely use more than 10 simultaneous transactions at a time.

* [Client-based rate limits](/docs/reference/rl-clientbased/): Client-based rate limiting for the `/authorize` endpoint uses a combination of the Client ID, user's IP address, and Okta device identifier to provide granular isolation for requests made to the `/authorize` endpoint. This framework isolates rogue OAuth clients and bad actors, thereby ensuring valid users and applications don't run into rate limit violations.

* [DynamicScale rate limits](/docs/reference/rl-dynamic-scale/): If your needs exceed Okta's default rate limits for the base product subscriptions (One App or Enterprise) that you've already purchased, the  DynamicScale add-on service grants you higher limits for a variety of endpoints across different APIs.

* [End-user rate limits](/docs/reference/rl-additional-limits/#end-user-rate-limits): Okta limits the number of requests from the Admin Console and End-User Dashboard to 40 requests per user per 10 seconds per endpoint. This rate limit protects users from each other and from other API requests in the system.

* [Home page endpoints and per-minute limits](/docs/reference/rl-additional-limits/#okta-home-page-endpoints-and-per-minute-limits): These endpoints are used by the Okta home page for authentication and user sign in and have org-wide rate limits.

* [Previous rate limits](/docs/reference/rl-previous/): This content covers the rate limits for orgs that were created before 2018-05-17.

* [Okta API endpoints and per-user limits](/docs/reference/rl-additional-limits/#okta-api-endpoints-and-per-user-limits): API endpoints that take username and password credentials, including the [Authentication API](/docs/reference/api/authn/) and the [OAuth 2.0 resource owner password flow](/docs/guides/implement-password/), have a per-username rate limit to prevent brute force attacks with the user's password.

* [Okta-generated email message rate limits](/docs/reference/rl-additional-limits/#okta-generated-email-message-rate-limits): These rate limits vary by email type. Okta enforces rate limits on the number of Okta-generated email messages that are sent to customers and customer users. For example, if the number of emails sent to a given user exceeds the per-minute limit for a given email type, subsequent emails of that type are dropped for that user until that minute elapses.
