packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/enable-cors/overview/index.md, before:

---
title: Overview
---

[Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)](https://www.w3.org/TR/cors/) is a mechanism that allows a web page to make an AJAX call using [XMLHttpRequest (XHR)](https://xhr.spec.whatwg.org/) to a domain that is different than the domain where the script was loaded. Such cross-domain requests would otherwise be forbidden by web browsers as indicated by the [same origin security policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy). CORS defines a [standardized](http://www.w3.org/TR/cors/) way in which the browser and the server can interact to determine whether or not to allow the cross-origin request.

In Okta, CORS allows JavaScript hosted on your websites to make an XML Http Request to the Okta API with the Okta session cookie. Every website origin must be explicitly permitted as a Trusted Origin.

> **Caution:** You should only grant access to specific origins (websites) that you control and trust to access the Okta API.

### API Support

The Okta API supports CORS on an API by API basis. If you're building an application that needs CORS, check that the specific operation supports CORS for your use case. APIs that support CORS are marked with the following icon <span class="api-label api-label-small api-label-cors"><i class="fa fa-cloud-download"></i> CORS</span>.

### Browser Support

Not all browsers supports CORS. The following table describes which browsers support this feature.

<iframe frameborder="0" width="225%" height="460px" src="https://caniuse.com/cors/embed/description&amp;links"></iframe>

> **Note:** IE8 and IE9 don't support authenticated requests and can't use the Okta session cookie with CORS.

<NextSectionLink/>

Commit message:

Standardizes support instructions for guides
For all guides in the library:
* Moved (or added) instructions on how to get support through the developer forum from the last page of the guide to the first page
* Shortened the text pointing developers to get a free developer org, as it was wrapping weirdly in all the guides.
* Cleaned up a few places where there were extra spaces or new lines at the ends of files.

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/enable-cors/overview/index.md, after:

---
title: Overview
---

[Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)](https://www.w3.org/TR/cors/) is a mechanism that allows a web page to make an AJAX call using [XMLHttpRequest (XHR)](https://xhr.spec.whatwg.org/) to a domain that is different than the domain where the script was loaded. Such cross-domain requests would otherwise be forbidden by web browsers as indicated by the [same origin security policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy). CORS defines a [standardized](http://www.w3.org/TR/cors/) way in which the browser and the server can interact to determine whether or not to allow the cross-origin request.

In Okta, CORS allows JavaScript hosted on your websites to make an XML Http Request to the Okta API with the Okta session cookie. Every website origin must be explicitly permitted as a Trusted Origin.

> **Caution:** You should only grant access to specific origins (websites) that you control and trust to access the Okta API.

### API Support

The Okta API supports CORS on an API by API basis. If you're building an application that needs CORS, check that the specific operation supports CORS for your use case. APIs that support CORS are marked with the following icon <span class="api-label api-label-small api-label-cors"><i class="fa fa-cloud-download"></i> CORS</span>.

### Browser Support

Not all browsers supports CORS. The following table describes which browsers support this feature.

<iframe frameborder="0" width="225%" height="460px" src="https://caniuse.com/cors/embed/description&amp;links"></iframe>

> **Note:** IE8 and IE9 don't support authenticated requests and can't use the Okta session cookie with CORS.

## Support

If you need help or have an issue, post a question in our [Developer Forum](https://devforum.okta.com).

<NextSectionLink/>
