packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/add-an-external-idp/create-an-app-at-idp/linkedin/appatidp.md, before:

1. Go to [LinkedIn Developer page](https://developer.linkedin.com/) and register for a developer account if you haven't already done so.

2. Create a LinkedIn app using these [instructions](https://www.linkedin.com/developer/apps).

3. Save the OAuth client ID and client secret values so you can add them to the Okta configuration in the next section.

4. Leave the **Authorized redirect URLs** section blank for now. We will come back to it later.

    > **Note:** You must explicitly request the `r_liteprofile` and `r_emailaddress` scopes when requesting an authorization code. See [Permissions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/linkedin/shared/authentication/permissions?context=linkedin/context) for more information.

    Example: `scope=r_liteprofile r_emailaddress w_member_social`

> **Note:** There may be additional settings on the [instructions page](https://www.linkedin.com/developer/apps) that you can configure for the app. The steps in this guide address the quickest route to setting up LinkedIn as an Identity Provider with Okta. See the LinkedIn documentation for more information on additional configuration settings.

Commit message:

new apple as idp doc (#1229)
* initial edits

* updates

* more edits

* june 1 edits

* config at apple

* more content

* tweaking apple config section

* apple IdP first draft

* first draft

* a few edits

* api ref content

* review comments

* generalize domain URLs

* &#8212 fix

* removing redirect section and adding redirect content to create an app at the Identity Provider section

* venkat review

* link to apple scopes per zoe

* one more tweak to scope link text

* yu review

* more yu review

* social login updates

* Revert "api ref content"

This reverts commit a6eea2194a0ad91497fc5ce336c7ed8d27fc9010.

* Apple IdP API

Resolves: OKTA-309869

* review comments

* feedback

* adding postman link updates to the api reference doc and the postman collections page

* removing well known configuration urls in openid connect section per venkat v

Co-authored-by: Yu Liu <yu.liu@okta.com>

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/add-an-external-idp/create-an-app-at-idp/linkedin/appatidp.md, after:

1. Go to [LinkedIn Developer page](https://developer.linkedin.com/) and register for a developer account if you haven't already done so.

2. Create a LinkedIn app using these [instructions](https://www.linkedin.com/developer/apps).

3. Save the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** values (located on the **Auth** tab) so that you can add them to the Okta configuration in the next section.

4. Add the Okta redirect URL for your app in the **OAuth 2.0 settings** section by clicking the pencil and then **Add redirect URL**.

5. Paste the redirect URI into the box. The redirect URI sent in the authorize request from the client needs to match the redirect URI in the Identity Provider (IdP). This is the URL where the IdP returns the authentication response (the access token and the ID token). It needs to be a secure domain that you own. This URI has the same structure for most Identity Providers in Okta and is constructed using your Okta subdomain and then the callback endpoint.

    For example, if your Okta subdomain is called `company`, then the URL would be: `https://company.okta.com/oauth2/v1/authorize/callback`. If you have configured a custom domain in your Okta Org, use that value to construct your redirect URI, such as `https://login.company.com/oauth2/v1/authorize/callback`.

6. Click **Update**.

> **Note:** You must explicitly request the `r_liteprofile` and `r_emailaddress` scopes when requesting an authorization code. See [Permissions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/linkedin/shared/authentication/permissions?context=linkedin/context) for more information.

Example: `scope=r_liteprofile r_emailaddress w_member_social`

> **Note:** There may be additional settings on the [instructions page](https://www.linkedin.com/developer/apps) that you can configure for the app. The steps in this guide address the quickest route to setting up LinkedIn as an Identity Provider with Okta. See the LinkedIn documentation for more information on additional configuration settings.
