packages/@okta/vuepress-site/code/angular/okta_angular_auth_js/index.md, before:

---
title: Okta Auth JS and Angular
language: Angular
excerpt: Integrate Okta with an Angular application using Auth JS.
icon: code-angular
---


This guide will walk you through integrating authentication and authorization into an Angular application using the [Okta Auth SDK](https://github.com/okta/okta-auth-js).

> The Auth SDK is a lower level SDK than the [Okta Angular SDK](https://github.com/okta/okta-angular), which builds upon the Auth SDK to implement many of the features shown in this guide. Our complete [Angular Sample Apps](https://github.com/okta/samples-js-angular) are built using the Angular SDK. For a simple integration, we generally recommend using the Angular SDK. However, in certain cases it may be preferable to use the Auth SDK directly, as shown here.

## Prerequisites

If you do not already have a  **Developer Edition Account**, you can create one at [https://developer.okta.com/signup/](https://developer.okta.com/signup/).

### Add an OpenID Connect Client

* Sign in to the Okta Developer Dashboard, and select **Create New App**
* Choose **Single Page App (SPA)** as the platform, then populate your new OpenID Connect application with appropriate values for your app. For example:

| Setting              | Value                                               |
| -------------------  | --------------------------------------------------- |
| Application Name     | OpenID Connect App (must be unique)                 |
| Login redirect URIs  | `http://localhost:4200/callback`                    |
| Logout redirect URIs | `http://localhost:4200`                             |
| Allowed grant types  | Authorization Code                                  |

> **Note:** CORS is automatically enabled for the granted login redirect URIs.

## Create an Angular App

To create an Angular app, open a terminal and install the Angular CLI:

```bash
npm install -g @angular/cli
```

Now, create a new application using the Angular CLI:

```bash
ng new okta-app
```

When asked `Would you like to add Angular routing?`, press "y"

For this example we are using `CSS` as the style engine. If you would like to use `SCSS` or another style engine, you may need to make a few adjustments to the code snippets shown in this guide.

After all prompts have been answered, the Angular CLI will create a new project in a folder named `okta-app` and installs all required dependencies.

```bash
cd okta-app
```

Install the [Okta Auth SDK](https://github.com/okta/okta-auth-js) using `npm`:

```bash
npm install @okta/okta-auth-js
```

## Create an Authentication Service

Users can sign in to your Angular application a number of different ways.
The easiest, and most secure way is to use the **default login page**. This page renders the [Okta Sign-In Widget](/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/), equipped to handle User Lifecycle operations, MFA, and more.

First, create `src/app/app.service.ts` as an authorization utility file and use it to bootstrap the required fields to login:

> Important: We're using Okta's organization authorization server to make setup easy, but it's less flexible than a custom authorization server. Many SPAs send access tokens to access APIs. If you're building an API that will need to accept access tokens, [create an authorization server](/docs/guides/customize-authz-server/).

```typescript
import { Observable, Observer } from 'rxjs';
import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
import { Router } from '@angular/router';
import { OktaAuth } from '@okta/okta-auth-js';

@Injectable({providedIn: 'root'})
export class OktaAuthService {

  // IMPORTANT!
  // Replace {clientId} with your actual Client ID
  // Replace {yourOktaDomain} with your actual Okta domain
  // If using a custom authorization server, ISSUER should be 'https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/${authServerId}'

  CLIENT_ID = '{clientId}';
  ISSUER = 'https://{yourOktaDomain}'
  LOGIN_REDIRECT_URI = 'http://localhost:4200/callback';
  LOGOUT_REDIRECT_URI = 'http://localhost:4200/';

  oktaAuth = new OktaAuth({
    clientId: this.CLIENT_ID,
    issuer: this.ISSUER,
    redirectUri: this.LOGIN_REDIRECT_URI,
    pkce: true
  });

  $isAuthenticated: Observable<boolean>;
  private observer: Observer<boolean>;
  constructor(private router: Router) {
    this.$isAuthenticated = new Observable((observer: Observer<boolean>) => {
      this.observer = observer;
      this.isAuthenticated().then(val => {
        observer.next(val);
      });
    });
  }

  async isAuthenticated() {
    // Checks if there is a current accessToken in the TokenManger.
    return !!(await this.oktaAuth.tokenManager.get('accessToken'));
  }

  login(originalUrl) {
    // Save current URL before redirect
    sessionStorage.setItem('okta-app-url', originalUrl || this.router.url);

    // Launches the login redirect.
    this.oktaAuth.token.getWithRedirect({
      scopes: ['openid', 'email', 'profile']
    });
  }

  async handleAuthentication() {
    const tokenContainer = await this.oktaAuth.token.parseFromUrl();

    this.oktaAuth.tokenManager.add('idToken', tokenContainer.tokens.idToken);
    this.oktaAuth.tokenManager.add('accessToken', tokenContainer.tokens.accessToken);

    if (await this.isAuthenticated()) {
      this.observer.next(true);
    }

    // Retrieve the saved URL and navigate back
    const url = sessionStorage.getItem('okta-app-url');
    this.router.navigateByUrl(url);
  }

  async logout() {
    await this.oktaAuth.signOut({
      postLogoutRedirectUri: this.LOGOUT_REDIRECT_URI
    });
  }
}
```

## Create an Authorization Guard

Now that you have a shared service to start, control, and end the authentication state, use it to protect the endpoints of an app.

Create `src/app/app.guard.ts` that implements [`CanActivate`](https://angular.io/api/router/CanActivate):

```typescript
import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
import { Router, CanActivate, ActivatedRouteSnapshot, RouterStateSnapshot } from '@angular/router';
import { OktaAuthService } from './app.service';

@Injectable({providedIn: 'root'})
export class OktaAuthGuard implements CanActivate {
  constructor(private okta: OktaAuthService, private router: Router) {}

  async canActivate(route: ActivatedRouteSnapshot, state: RouterStateSnapshot) {
    const authenticated = await this.okta.isAuthenticated();
    if (authenticated) { return true; }

    // Redirect to login flow.
    this.okta.login(state.url);
    return false;
  }
}
```

Whenever a user attempts to access a route that is protected by `OktaAuthGuard`, it first checks to see if the user has been authenticated. If `isAuthenticated()` returns `false`, the login flow will be started.

## Add Routes

Let's take a look at what routes are needed:

* `/`: A default page to handle basic control of the app.
* `/callback`: Handle the response back from Okta and store the returned tokens.
* `/protected`: A protected route by the `OktaAuthGuard`.

### `/`

First, update `src/app/app.component.ts` to inject the `OktaAuthService` into the component. This will make the service available within the component's template as the variable `oktaAuth`. Subscribe to the `Observable` exposed by the `OktaAuthService`. This will keep the variable `isAuthenticated` updated. We will use this variable within the template to control visibility of the login and logout buttons.

```typescript
import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';
import { OktaAuthService } from './app.service';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
})
export class AppComponent implements OnInit {
  title = 'okta-app';
  isAuthenticated: boolean;
  constructor(public oktaAuth: OktaAuthService) {}

  ngOnInit(): void {
    this.oktaAuth.$isAuthenticated.subscribe(val => this.isAuthenticated = val);
  }
}
```

Next, update `src/app/app.component.html` with some buttons to trigger login or logout. Also add a link to the `/protected` route. There may be a large block of "placeholder" code in this file generated by the Angular CLI. You can safely remove this.

```html
<button routerLink="/"> Home </button>
<button *ngIf="!isAuthenticated" (click)="oktaAuth.login('/')"> Login </button>
<button *ngIf="isAuthenticated" (click)="oktaAuth.logout()"> Logout </button>
<button routerLink="/protected"> Protected </button>

<router-outlet></router-outlet>
```

### `/callback`

In order to handle the redirect back from Okta, we need to capture the token values from the URL. Use the `/callback` route to handle the logic of storing these tokens and redirecting back to the main page.

Create a new component `src/app/callback.component.ts`:

```typescript
import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';
import { OktaAuthService } from './app.service';

@Component({ template: `` })
export class CallbackComponent implements OnInit {

  constructor(private okta: OktaAuthService) {}

  ngOnInit(): void {
    // Handles the response from Okta and parses tokens
    this.okta.handleAuthentication();
  }
}
```

### `/protected`

This route will be protected by the `OktaAuthGuard`, only permitting authenticated users with a valid `accessToken`.

Create a new component `src/app/protected.component.ts`:

```typescript
import { Component } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-secure',
  template: `<h2>PROTECTED!</h2>`,
})
export class ProtectedComponent {}
```

### Connect the Routes

Add each of our new routes to `src/app/app-routing.module.ts`:

```typescript
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { Routes, RouterModule } from '@angular/router';

import { OktaAuthGuard } from './app.guard';
import { CallbackComponent } from './callback.component';
import { ProtectedComponent } from './protected.component';

const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: 'callback',
    component: CallbackComponent
  },
  {
    path: 'protected',
    component: ProtectedComponent,
    canActivate: [OktaAuthGuard]
  }
];

@NgModule({
  imports: [RouterModule.forRoot(routes)],
  exports: [RouterModule]
})
export class AppRoutingModule { }
```

*Notice how the path [/protected](#protected) uses the `canActivate` parameter to gate access to the route.*

Update your `@NgModule` in `src/app/app.module.ts`:

* Import the newly created components
* Add the components to the array of `declarations`

```typescript
import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';

import { AppRoutingModule } from './app-routing.module';
import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
import { CallbackComponent } from './callback.component';
import { ProtectedComponent } from './protected.component';

@NgModule({
  declarations: [
    AppComponent,
    CallbackComponent,
    ProtectedComponent
  ],
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    AppRoutingModule
  ],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent]
})
export class AppModule { }
```

Build and start the app. In the terminal:

```bash
npm start
```

After the server starts, this message appears in your terminal:

`** Angular Live Development Server is listening on localhost:4200, open your browser on http://localhost:4200/ **`

## Conclusion

You have now successfully authenticated with Okta! Now what? With a user's `id_token`, you have basic claims for the user's identity. You can extend the set of claims by modifying the `scopes` to retrieve custom information about the user. This includes `locale`, `address`, `groups`, and [more](/docs/reference/api/oidc/).

Want to learn how to use the user's `access_token`? Check out our <a href='/docs/guides/sign-into-spa/angular/before-you-begin/' data-proofer-ignore>how to guide</a> to learn about protecting routes on your server, validating the `access_token`, and more!

## Support

Have a question or see a bug? Post your question on the [Okta Developer Forums](https://devforum.okta.com/).

Commit message:

add more of application type warnings

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/code/angular/okta_angular_auth_js/index.md, after:

---
title: Okta Auth JS and Angular
language: Angular
excerpt: Integrate Okta with an Angular application using Auth JS.
icon: code-angular
---


This guide will walk you through integrating authentication and authorization into an Angular application using the [Okta Auth SDK](https://github.com/okta/okta-auth-js).

> The Auth SDK is a lower level SDK than the [Okta Angular SDK](https://github.com/okta/okta-angular), which builds upon the Auth SDK to implement many of the features shown in this guide. Our complete [Angular Sample Apps](https://github.com/okta/samples-js-angular) are built using the Angular SDK. For a simple integration, we generally recommend using the Angular SDK. However, in certain cases it may be preferable to use the Auth SDK directly, as shown here.

## Prerequisites

If you do not already have a  **Developer Edition Account**, you can create one at [https://developer.okta.com/signup/](https://developer.okta.com/signup/).

### Add an OpenID Connect Client

* Sign in to the Okta Developer Dashboard, and select **Create New App**
* Choose **Single Page App (SPA)** as the platform, then populate your new OpenID Connect application with appropriate values for your app. For example:

| Setting              | Value                                               |
| -------------------  | --------------------------------------------------- |
| Application Name     | OpenID Connect App (must be unique)                 |
| Login redirect URIs  | `http://localhost:4200/callback`                    |
| Logout redirect URIs | `http://localhost:4200`                             |
| Allowed grant types  | Authorization Code                                  |

> **Note:** It is important to choose the appropriate application type for apps which are public clients. Failing to do so may result in Okta API endpoints attempting to verify an app's client secret, which public clients are not designed to have, hence breaking the sign-in or sign-out flow.

> **Note:** CORS is automatically enabled for the granted login redirect URIs.

## Create an Angular App

To create an Angular app, open a terminal and install the Angular CLI:

```bash
npm install -g @angular/cli
```

Now, create a new application using the Angular CLI:

```bash
ng new okta-app
```

When asked `Would you like to add Angular routing?`, press "y"

For this example we are using `CSS` as the style engine. If you would like to use `SCSS` or another style engine, you may need to make a few adjustments to the code snippets shown in this guide.

After all prompts have been answered, the Angular CLI will create a new project in a folder named `okta-app` and installs all required dependencies.

```bash
cd okta-app
```

Install the [Okta Auth SDK](https://github.com/okta/okta-auth-js) using `npm`:

```bash
npm install @okta/okta-auth-js
```

## Create an Authentication Service

Users can sign in to your Angular application a number of different ways.
The easiest, and most secure way is to use the **default login page**. This page renders the [Okta Sign-In Widget](/code/javascript/okta_sign-in_widget/), equipped to handle User Lifecycle operations, MFA, and more.

First, create `src/app/app.service.ts` as an authorization utility file and use it to bootstrap the required fields to login:

> Important: We're using Okta's organization authorization server to make setup easy, but it's less flexible than a custom authorization server. Many SPAs send access tokens to access APIs. If you're building an API that will need to accept access tokens, [create an authorization server](/docs/guides/customize-authz-server/).

```typescript
import { Observable, Observer } from 'rxjs';
import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
import { Router } from '@angular/router';
import { OktaAuth } from '@okta/okta-auth-js';

@Injectable({providedIn: 'root'})
export class OktaAuthService {

  // IMPORTANT!
  // Replace {clientId} with your actual Client ID
  // Replace {yourOktaDomain} with your actual Okta domain
  // If using a custom authorization server, ISSUER should be 'https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/${authServerId}'

  CLIENT_ID = '{clientId}';
  ISSUER = 'https://{yourOktaDomain}'
  LOGIN_REDIRECT_URI = 'http://localhost:4200/callback';
  LOGOUT_REDIRECT_URI = 'http://localhost:4200/';

  oktaAuth = new OktaAuth({
    clientId: this.CLIENT_ID,
    issuer: this.ISSUER,
    redirectUri: this.LOGIN_REDIRECT_URI,
    pkce: true
  });

  $isAuthenticated: Observable<boolean>;
  private observer: Observer<boolean>;
  constructor(private router: Router) {
    this.$isAuthenticated = new Observable((observer: Observer<boolean>) => {
      this.observer = observer;
      this.isAuthenticated().then(val => {
        observer.next(val);
      });
    });
  }

  async isAuthenticated() {
    // Checks if there is a current accessToken in the TokenManger.
    return !!(await this.oktaAuth.tokenManager.get('accessToken'));
  }

  login(originalUrl) {
    // Save current URL before redirect
    sessionStorage.setItem('okta-app-url', originalUrl || this.router.url);

    // Launches the login redirect.
    this.oktaAuth.token.getWithRedirect({
      scopes: ['openid', 'email', 'profile']
    });
  }

  async handleAuthentication() {
    const tokenContainer = await this.oktaAuth.token.parseFromUrl();

    this.oktaAuth.tokenManager.add('idToken', tokenContainer.tokens.idToken);
    this.oktaAuth.tokenManager.add('accessToken', tokenContainer.tokens.accessToken);

    if (await this.isAuthenticated()) {
      this.observer.next(true);
    }

    // Retrieve the saved URL and navigate back
    const url = sessionStorage.getItem('okta-app-url');
    this.router.navigateByUrl(url);
  }

  async logout() {
    await this.oktaAuth.signOut({
      postLogoutRedirectUri: this.LOGOUT_REDIRECT_URI
    });
  }
}
```

## Create an Authorization Guard

Now that you have a shared service to start, control, and end the authentication state, use it to protect the endpoints of an app.

Create `src/app/app.guard.ts` that implements [`CanActivate`](https://angular.io/api/router/CanActivate):

```typescript
import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
import { Router, CanActivate, ActivatedRouteSnapshot, RouterStateSnapshot } from '@angular/router';
import { OktaAuthService } from './app.service';

@Injectable({providedIn: 'root'})
export class OktaAuthGuard implements CanActivate {
  constructor(private okta: OktaAuthService, private router: Router) {}

  async canActivate(route: ActivatedRouteSnapshot, state: RouterStateSnapshot) {
    const authenticated = await this.okta.isAuthenticated();
    if (authenticated) { return true; }

    // Redirect to login flow.
    this.okta.login(state.url);
    return false;
  }
}
```

Whenever a user attempts to access a route that is protected by `OktaAuthGuard`, it first checks to see if the user has been authenticated. If `isAuthenticated()` returns `false`, the login flow will be started.

## Add Routes

Let's take a look at what routes are needed:

* `/`: A default page to handle basic control of the app.
* `/callback`: Handle the response back from Okta and store the returned tokens.
* `/protected`: A protected route by the `OktaAuthGuard`.

### `/`

First, update `src/app/app.component.ts` to inject the `OktaAuthService` into the component. This will make the service available within the component's template as the variable `oktaAuth`. Subscribe to the `Observable` exposed by the `OktaAuthService`. This will keep the variable `isAuthenticated` updated. We will use this variable within the template to control visibility of the login and logout buttons.

```typescript
import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';
import { OktaAuthService } from './app.service';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
})
export class AppComponent implements OnInit {
  title = 'okta-app';
  isAuthenticated: boolean;
  constructor(public oktaAuth: OktaAuthService) {}

  ngOnInit(): void {
    this.oktaAuth.$isAuthenticated.subscribe(val => this.isAuthenticated = val);
  }
}
```

Next, update `src/app/app.component.html` with some buttons to trigger login or logout. Also add a link to the `/protected` route. There may be a large block of "placeholder" code in this file generated by the Angular CLI. You can safely remove this.

```html
<button routerLink="/"> Home </button>
<button *ngIf="!isAuthenticated" (click)="oktaAuth.login('/')"> Login </button>
<button *ngIf="isAuthenticated" (click)="oktaAuth.logout()"> Logout </button>
<button routerLink="/protected"> Protected </button>

<router-outlet></router-outlet>
```

### `/callback`

In order to handle the redirect back from Okta, we need to capture the token values from the URL. Use the `/callback` route to handle the logic of storing these tokens and redirecting back to the main page.

Create a new component `src/app/callback.component.ts`:

```typescript
import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';
import { OktaAuthService } from './app.service';

@Component({ template: `` })
export class CallbackComponent implements OnInit {

  constructor(private okta: OktaAuthService) {}

  ngOnInit(): void {
    // Handles the response from Okta and parses tokens
    this.okta.handleAuthentication();
  }
}
```

### `/protected`

This route will be protected by the `OktaAuthGuard`, only permitting authenticated users with a valid `accessToken`.

Create a new component `src/app/protected.component.ts`:

```typescript
import { Component } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-secure',
  template: `<h2>PROTECTED!</h2>`,
})
export class ProtectedComponent {}
```

### Connect the Routes

Add each of our new routes to `src/app/app-routing.module.ts`:

```typescript
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { Routes, RouterModule } from '@angular/router';

import { OktaAuthGuard } from './app.guard';
import { CallbackComponent } from './callback.component';
import { ProtectedComponent } from './protected.component';

const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: 'callback',
    component: CallbackComponent
  },
  {
    path: 'protected',
    component: ProtectedComponent,
    canActivate: [OktaAuthGuard]
  }
];

@NgModule({
  imports: [RouterModule.forRoot(routes)],
  exports: [RouterModule]
})
export class AppRoutingModule { }
```

*Notice how the path [/protected](#protected) uses the `canActivate` parameter to gate access to the route.*

Update your `@NgModule` in `src/app/app.module.ts`:

* Import the newly created components
* Add the components to the array of `declarations`

```typescript
import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';

import { AppRoutingModule } from './app-routing.module';
import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
import { CallbackComponent } from './callback.component';
import { ProtectedComponent } from './protected.component';

@NgModule({
  declarations: [
    AppComponent,
    CallbackComponent,
    ProtectedComponent
  ],
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    AppRoutingModule
  ],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent]
})
export class AppModule { }
```

Build and start the app. In the terminal:

```bash
npm start
```

After the server starts, this message appears in your terminal:

`** Angular Live Development Server is listening on localhost:4200, open your browser on http://localhost:4200/ **`

## Conclusion

You have now successfully authenticated with Okta! Now what? With a user's `id_token`, you have basic claims for the user's identity. You can extend the set of claims by modifying the `scopes` to retrieve custom information about the user. This includes `locale`, `address`, `groups`, and [more](/docs/reference/api/oidc/).

Want to learn how to use the user's `access_token`? Check out our <a href='/docs/guides/sign-into-spa/angular/before-you-begin/' data-proofer-ignore>how to guide</a> to learn about protecting routes on your server, validating the `access_token`, and more!

## Support

Have a question or see a bug? Post your question on the [Okta Developer Forums](https://devforum.okta.com/).
