You can retain authentication control of your React single-page app (SPA) without redirection to Okta by implementing [embedded authentication](/docs/concepts/redirect-vs-embedded/#embedded-authentication). Use embedded authentication with the help of Okta Auth JS and Okta React libraries. These libraries provide you with common, reusable OAuth 2.0 methods and properties to handle the interaction between the Okta authorization server and your client app.

You can customize the sign-in experience for your app with minimal use of low-level [Okta Authentication](/docs/reference/api/authn/) and [Okta OpenID Connect (OIDC) & OAuth 2.0](/docs/reference/api/oidc/) APIs.

The authentication interaction between the Okta authorization server and your client app follows the [Interaction Code](/docs/concepts/interaction-code/) flow. This Okta flow is an extension to the [OAuth 2.0 and OIDC](/docs/concepts/oauth-openid/) standard. It allows you to customize the user authentication experience for your app without redirecting to an authentication component outside of your app. See [Implement authorization by Interaction Code grant type](/docs/guides/implement-grant-type/interactioncode/main/) to understand the Interaction Code flow and necessary interactions between the Okta authorization server and your app.

> **Note**: You can use the [Okta Sign-In Widget](/docs/guides/embedded-siw) to embed authentication if you don't need full customization capabilities for your sign-in user experience. The widget handles the Interaction Code flow in authentication use cases offered by Okta. See [Sign in to your SPA with embedded Okta Sign-In Widget](/docs/guides/sign-in-to-spa-embedded-widget/react/main/).
