packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/request-user-consent/build-the-request/index.md, before:

---
title: Build the request
---
After you define the scopes that you want to require consent for, prepare an authentication or authorization request with the correct values for `prompt` and `consent_method`.

1. Obtain the following values from your OpenID Connect application, both of which can be found on the application's **General** tab:

    * Client ID
    * Redirect URI

2. Use the default Custom Authorization Server's authorization endpoint:

    > **Note:** See [Authorization Servers](/docs/guides/customize-authz-server/overview/) for more information on the types of authorization servers available to you and what you can use them for.

    A default Custom Authorization endpoint looks like this where the `${authServerId}` is `default`:

        `https://${yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default/v1/authorize`

3. Add the following query parameters to the URL:

    * Your OpenID Connect application's `client_id` and `redirect_uri`
    * The `openid` and `phone` scopes
    * The response type, which for an ID token is `id_token` and an access token is `token`

    > **Note:** The examples in this guide use the [Implicit flow](/docs/concepts/oauth-openid/#implicit-flow). For the [Authorization Code flow](/docs/concepts/oauth-openid/#authorization-code-flow), the response type is `code`. You can exchange an authorization code for an ID token and/or an access token using the `/token` endpoint.

    * Values for `state` and `nonce`, which can be anything

    > **Note:** All of the values are fully documented on the [Obtain an Authorization Grant from a user](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#authorize) page.

    The resulting URL requesting an access token looks something like this:

    ```bash
    curl -X GET
    "https://${yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/${authServerId}/v1/authorize?client_id=examplefa39J4jXdcCwWA
    &response_type=token
    &scope=openid%20phone
    &redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2FyourRedirectUriHere.com
    &state=myState
    &nonce=${myNonceValue}"
    ```

    > **Note:** The `response_type` for an ID token looks like this: `&response_type=id_token`.

4. Paste the request URL into a browser. The User Consent dialog box appears. Click **Allow** to create the grant.

    > **Note:** The user only has to grant consent once for an attribute per authorization server.

<NextSectionLink/>

Commit message:

more info around the prompt parameter

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/request-user-consent/build-the-request/index.md, after:

---
title: Build the request
---
After you define the scopes that you want to require consent for, prepare an authentication or authorization request with the correct values.

1. Obtain the following values from your OpenID Connect application, both of which can be found on the application's **General** tab:

    * Client ID
    * Redirect URI

2. Use the default Custom Authorization Server's authorization endpoint:

    > **Note:** See [Authorization Servers](/docs/guides/customize-authz-server/overview/) for more information on the types of authorization servers available to you and what you can use them for.

    A default Custom Authorization endpoint looks like this where the `${authServerId}` is `default`:

        `https://${yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default/v1/authorize`

3. Add the following query parameters to the URL:

    * Your OpenID Connect application's `client_id` and `redirect_uri`
    * The `openid` and `phone` scopes (you configured the `phone` scope in the <GuideLink link="../require-consent">previous section</GuideLink>)
    * The response type, which for an ID token is `id_token` and an access token is `token`

    > **Note:** The examples in this guide use the [Implicit flow](/docs/concepts/oauth-openid/#implicit-flow). For the [Authorization Code flow](/docs/concepts/oauth-openid/#authorization-code-flow), the response type is `code`. You can exchange an authorization code for an ID token and/or an access token using the `/token` endpoint.

    * Values for `state` and `nonce`, which can be anything

    * Optional. The `prompt` parameter. Standard behavior if you don't include `prompt` in the request is to prompt the user for consent if they haven't already given consent for the scope. Including `prompt=consent` in the request prompts the user for consent every time, even if they have already given consent for the scope. The `consent_method` must be set to `REQUIRED` and consent for the `phone` scope is set to `REQUIRED`. See the [**Parameter** details](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#parameter-details) section for the `/authorize` endpoint for more information on the value options for the `prompt` parameter.

    > **Note:** All of the values are fully documented in the [/authorize endpoint](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#authorize) section of the OpenID Connect & OAuth 2.0 API reference page.

    The resulting URL requesting an access token looks something like this:

    ```bash
    curl -X GET
    "https://${yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/${authServerId}/v1/authorize?client_id=examplefa39J4jXdcCwWA
    &response_type=token
    &scope=openid%20phone
    &redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2FyourRedirectUriHere.com
    &state=myState
    &nonce=${myNonceValue}"
    ```

    Example with the `prompt` parameter includedL:

     ```bash
    curl -X GET
    "https://${yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/${authServerId}/v1/authorize?client_id=examplefa39J4jXdcCwWA
    &response_type=token
    &scope=openid%20phone
    &prompt=consent
    &redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2FyourRedirectUriHere.com
    &state=myState
    &nonce=${myNonceValue}"
    ```

    > **Note:** The `response_type` for an ID token looks like this: `&response_type=id_token`.

4. Paste the request URL into a browser. The User Consent dialog box appears. Click **Allow** to create the grant.

    > **Note:** The user only has to grant consent once for an attribute per authorization server.

<NextSectionLink/>
