packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/oie-embedded-overview/main/index.md, before:

---
title: Overview
---

<ApiLifecycle access="ie" /><br>

<div class="oie-embedded-sdk">

Okta provides two embedded identity solutions.

1. **Embedded SDK**: A highly customizable solution that
   provides native language support for a variety of identity
   use cases.
2. **Embedded Widget + SDK**: A quick and easy to set up solution that
   moves most of the the heavy lifting to Okta. Although the amount
   of code that you need to write is small, many of the most advanced
   identity use cases (for example, social sign in, multifactor authentication)
   is supported out of the box.

![Widget icon](/img/oie-embedded-sdk/embedded-solution-overview.png
"Widget icon")

## Get started with the sample apps

Sample apps are provided for each solution to show you exactly how to integrate
the SDK and widget into an application. Follow the links below to get started:

[Get started with the embedded SDK](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-overview/main/)

[Get started with the embedded widget](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-widget-overview/main/)

</div>

Commit message:

Improved setup flow of sdk and widget

packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/oie-embedded-overview/main/index.md, after:

---
title: Overview
---

<ApiLifecycle access="ie" /><br>

<div class="oie-embedded-sdk">

Okta provides two embedded identity solutions.

1. **Embedded SDK only**: A highly customizable solution that
   provides native language support for a variety of identity
   use cases.
2. **Embedded Widget + SDK**: A quick and easy to set up solution that
   moves most of the the heavy lifting to Okta. Although the amount
   of code that you need to write is small, many of the most advanced
   identity use cases (for example, social sign in, multifactor authentication)
   is supported out of the box.

![Widget icon](/img/oie-embedded-sdk/embedded-solution-overview.png
"Widget icon")

## Get started

Sample apps are provided for each solution to show you exactly how to integrate
the SDK and widget into your own application. To get started using either **SDK**
or **widget** follow the steps below:

**Step 1:** [Create your account and setup your Okta org](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-common-org-setup/aspnet/main/)

**Step 2:** [Download and setup the SDK, widget, and sample app](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-common-download-setup-app/aspnet/main/)

**Step 3:** Depending on your integration type, start building with the [widget](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-widget-overview/main/) or [SDK](/docs/guides/oie-embedded-sdk-overview/main/).

</div>
